<p><div align=justify><p>
Thus did the Supreme Lord Krishna who appeared in the Vrishni dynasty as
the son of King Vasudeva, divinely instruct the son of King Pandu and Queen
Kunti who was His fathers sister. Arjuna's mind had been extremely agitated
and anxiety filled by witnessing the terrifying aspect of the visvarupa or
divine universal form. Lord Krishna to comfort His devotee displayed His
four-armed form which was most familiar to Arjuna. The word mahatma means
great soul, He who is infallible with indomitable will.
<p>
The manifestation of the Supreme Lord Krishna who is the Sovereign Lord of
all, whose pure spiritual body is saccidananda or eternal existence,
unlimited cognisance and endless bliss, transcendentally accepts a human
looking form to bless all the worlds. The Vishnu PuranaV.III.X beginning
jatosi deva-devasa sankha cakra, gada, dhara states: When Lord Krishna
appeared as an infant baby in the jail cell of Kamsa in Mathura as the son
of King Vasudeva and Queen Devaki, He manifested His four armed form with
conch, discus, mace and flower. At that time King Vasudeva very much afraid
of Kamsa who had slain his six previous sons at birth prayed to Him thus:
O' Lord of lords , Thou art God incarnate. Thy form is divine. Be pleased
O'Lord to conceal and hide this form. In order to quickly alleviate the
anxiety of His father, Lord Krishna rendered two of the four arms invisible
along with the divine weapons. Later when He grew older He went back to
Mathura and slew Kamsa and released Vasudeva and Devaki from prison. At
that time His other two arms became visible and He resumed His four-armed
form again.
<p>
The Mahabharata states: The Supreme Lord, the son of Vasudeva with four-
arms, broad, strong and robust bearing the conch, the cakra, the mace, etc.
It was the four-arm form of Lord Krishna that constantly burned in
Sisupala's mind after Lord Krishna at her urgent request usurped Princess
Rukmini from him and married her. As Arjuna was an intimate friend of Lord
Krishna during all His royal pastimes this is the form Arjuna knew best.
Finally as a boon to fully console him He displayed His original svakam or
personal two-armed form of saumya-vapuh or gentle nature being the same as
all human beings.
<p>
