<p><div align=justify><p>
The words mat-karma-krt means those who dedicate their lives to Lord
Krishna. They study the Vedas, engage in meditation, carry out rituals of
propitiation, perform penance and other spiritual activities of this
nature; but all their activities are exclusively for the satisfaction of
the Supreme Lord. The words mat-paramah means those who make Lord Krishna
their ultimate shelter and goal of attainment towards which every effort
they make is directed. The words mad-bhaktah means Lord Krishna's loving
devotee to whom everything revolves around out of so much love for Him that
one is unable to exist without always reflecting, remembering, meditating,
serving, worshipping and praising Him etc. in one continuous flow without
cessation. The words sanga-varjitah means weaned from worldly attachments
due to one having total attachment to the Supreme Lord. The words nirvairah
sarva-bhutesu means bearing no enmity towards any living being and
successfully arises from three-fold considerations.
<p>
Lord Krishna's devotee's only happiness is being in communion with Him and
His devotees only misery is when they are not in communion with Him. Hence
they are unattached to all other living beings.
Lord Krishna's devotees attribute all their difficulties and afflictions
simply as a reaction to their own past actions. Hence they have no reason
to hate any being for it.
Lord Krishna's devotees have implicit faith that all living entities are
subject to His sovereign rule and are under His complete control.  Hence
whatever comes on its own according to providence is independently
occurring and not subject to anyone's motive.
<p>
Thinking in this enlightened way Lord Krishna's devotees are exempt from
all enmity and possessing all these attributes are able to qualify
themselves to come to Him. The words mam eti mean comes unto me which
denotes that one will realise Lord Krishna as He is and join in communion
with Him in their perfected spiritual body which is the actual goal
resulting from developing one's spiritual qualities.
<p>
