<p><div align=justify><p>
It is evident that death of the physical body is inevitable to  whatever  is
born and that there is no way to escape from this  physical  termination  of
the body. Similarly rebirth is unavoidable  once  one's  physical  body  has
died. How can something which has been lost become again? It is  conceivable
that   something  which  has  already  been  to  become  again;  but  it  is
inconceivable for that which has never been to become.  Therefore  there  is
nothing that can come that has not been. What is known as  birth  and  death
is but just different modifications of an ever existing condition. Yarn  and
other materials exist but when they are  woven  into  a  fabric  that  is  a
particular arrangement of the yarn itself, it receives  the  name  cloth  in
its modified state. Even the <i>asat-karya-vadis</i>  who  follow   the  fallacious
hypothesis that existence comes from non-existence  should  admit  the  ever
existing state, for what we know as cloth to them is a new creation  but  is
factually the same old yarn only in a new form which has  been  created.  It
is not sagacious or well thought out to assume  that  a  new  substance  has
come into being simply because of a modified condition.
<p>
Thus coming into existence and  disappearing  from  existence  are  modified
states of an ever existing reality. One of the conditions of  this  modified
state is its  appearance  called  birth  and  another  condition  being  its
diametric opposite is  known  as  death  which  by  disappearing  this  ever
existing reality  passes  into.  For  a  substance  which  is  intrinsically
metamorphic the process of modification is essential. As in the  case  of  a
clod of earth, transformed into clay, transformed into  a  pot,  transformed
into dust and transformed back  to  earth  again.  The  manifestation  of  a
subsequent condition is but a modification of a previous condition and  that
same subsequent condition becomes a prior condition  of  another  subsequent
condition. Reasoning in this way it can be understood  that  it  is  natural
that  successive  modifications  take  place  in  regards  to  creation  and
destruction of physical bodies which cannot  be  avoided  and  there  is  no
reason to lament due to this.
<p>
If there is some slight grief which may be apparent by the  passing  from  a
prior modified state to a subsequent modified state  even  this  grief  need
not arise in the case of living entities such  as  human  beings  because...
and the next verse 28 clarifies why.
<p>
