<p><div align=justify><p>
Lord Krishna  explicitly  emphasises  that  the  demoniac  are  consumed  by
incessantly hankering for the fulfilment of their  insatiable  desires.  The
demoniac are always thinking about what they have gained and enjoyed  today,
what they will gain and enjoy tomorrow and what they will gain and enjoy  in
the future. The demoniac do not believe in destiny and fate but only in  the
capabilities of  their  own  efforts,  intelligence  and  power.  Destroying
anything that  obstructs  their  desires  and  gets  in  the  way  of  their
ambitions, the demoniac think today I have destroyed a formidable  enemy  by
my power and might, tomorrow I shall destroy more enemies because I  am  all
powerful. I am master of my own destiny, invincible and independent. All  is
for my enjoyment. Everyone is inferior to me. I  am  wealthy,  highborn  and
thus superior. I am the enjoyer. None is my equal.
<p>
Observing that those  endowed  with  the  divine  nature  sometimes  achieve
phenomenal  fame  and  extraordinary  acclaim  by   performing   ritualistic
activities of  righteous  nature  for  the  benefit  of  all  creation;  the
demoniac spitefully concoct their  own  ritualistic  activities  based  upon
evil and clandestinely engage in fiendish activities such as offering  blood
sacrifices  and  vampirism  to  disincarnate  spirits,  ghosts  and   demons
channelling in ghastly  and  horrendous  non-human  energies  to  whom  they
sacrifice infants and humans in exchange for material  power.  This  is  how
they covertly operate in secret.
<p>
The demoniac also diabolically and deceptively imitate those of  the  divine
nature by pretending  to  be  compassionate  philanthropists  and  establish
institutions  bearing  their  name  that  give  ostentatious  donations  for
hospitals and charitable organisations for  feeding  the  poor  as  well  as
contributing to religious societies where they can  showcase  themselves  as
appearing pious. This is how they openly operate in public.
<p>
