<p><div align=justify><p>
The conclusion based on the strength of the Vedic scriptures to be found  in
various texts such as: the Mundaka Upanisad it states that one who has  duly
realized the Ultimate Truth, whose heart is calm and whose senses are  under
control, such a one  situated  in  enlightenment  should  categorically  and
comprehensively impart the knowledge of the  Ultimate  Truth  to  others  by
which they can also become self-realized.  By  disseminating  the  knowledge
which dissolves all lamentation and delusion, the  meaning  which  has  been
elucidated in the Vedic scriptures and the Vedic  books  of  law   like  the
Brhadaranyaka which states: By the will of He who is  imperishable  the  sun
and the moon are vitalised. The wind blows out  of  fear  of  Him,  the  sun
rises out of fear of Him, Agni, Indra  and  even  death  all  perform  their
duties out of fear of Him.
<p>
Encompassing all that exists, internal and  external  is  the  Supreme  Lord
Krishna. Everthing existing is  verily  manifested  from  Him.  One  who  is
peaceful  and   tranquil   should   propitiate   and   worship   under   all
circumstances. Under the control of  the  Supreme  Lord  Krishna  the  whole
cosmic manifestation composed of demigods, demons  and  humans  and  various
varieagated species is pulsating. O demigods what the  Earth  says  is  true
the creator and all  living  species  are  fragments  of  the  Supreme  Lord
Krishna. Whatever is present in totality is the Supreme  Lord  Krishna,  the
undecayable one, without a second and nothing else. Everything  visible  and
invisible is created from the Supreme Lord  Krishna.  The  Supreme  Ultimate
Truth is He and He alone.  What  grief  and  delusion  can  exist  when  one
understands this truth?
<p>
Discussing the nature and attributes of the Supreme  Ultimate  Reality  Lord
Krishna known also as  Narayana,  Hari,  Vasudeva,  Visnu  and  others,  who
controls all animate and inanimate energies like the sun,  moon,  fire,  the
demigods, death, the universes etc. and the non-material, original cause  of
the  creation,  maintenance  and   destruction   of   the   total   material
manifestation. The all pervading, omnipresent, soul of all being and of  the
nature of being eternally, simultaneously one and distinctly different.
<p>
In order to evoke the power of discrimination between the physical body  and
the soul, the Supreme Lord Krishna  rejecting  Arjunas  scholarship  replied
that he was grieving for those who  should  not  be  grieved  for,  such  as
Bhishma and Drona who are  engaged  in  battle  to  win  merit.  Here   Lord
Krishna responds to Arjunas statement in chapter 1, verse 32  of:  What  use
is kingdom, fabulous wealth,  enjoyments or even living. It is only  Arjunas
deluson that he grieves thinking that without relatives there is no  purpose
of ruling the kingdom or in living. Moreover Arjuna talks like  one  learned
saying that sin would be  incurred  but  then  disregarding  the  fact  that
Duryodhana and his brothers are heinious offenders.  So  in  this  way  Lord
Krishna  shows  that  foolishness  and  scholarship  are  illogical  and   a
diachotomy being contradictory hence Arjuna’s attempt at scholarship has  no
value. Why? Because those with spiritual intelligence do not grieve for  the
dead or the living. The root word  of  panditah  meaning  learned  is  panda
which means power of  disriminative  intellect,.  Those  who  possess  such
discrimination are considered wise. The wise never lament for  the  physical
body.
<p>
