<p><div align=justify><p>
Because of the traditional conception that a son is born  of  a  father  and
and that the grandfather died and also due to there being an  injunction  by
the authority of the Vedic books of  law  that  a  brahmana  remains  impure
during the ten days following a birth or death  in  his  immeadiate  family;
how is it possible that one can think of the soul  as  being  birthless  and
deathless? And if one continues to think of the soul as being  born  and  of
dying how can one alleviate their grief when the  physical  body  dies?  Can
the authority of the Vedic books of law be denied? To  clarify  such  doubts
Lord Krishna uses the word dehinah meaning attributed to the embodied  soul.
It is the embodied soul who occupies the physical body which is the  vehicle
to experience the consequences  of  all  ones  actions.  The  embodied  soul
allocated a particular body experiences infancy, childhood,  youth  and  old
age, each stage of  life  which  possess  its  own  distinct  attributes  at
different time periods. But although there is a  difference  in  the  stages
and a difference in the  perception  of  identity  there  is  absolutely  no
difference in  the  soul.  This  is  because  although  the  activities  one
experiences continuously  reside  in  the  compartment  of  the  memory  and
because when one is experiencing these different stages there developes  the
conception of identifying with the bodily designation in the form of it  was
I who in a young body played upon a fathers lap and was fed by a  mother  in
infancy and it is I who now in an old body experience various  relationships
with children and grandchildren in old age. Only the bodily  conception  has
changed the soul remains the same. In the same way that  the  embodied  soul
experiences the changing physical body, the embodied soul  changes  physical
bodies  at the time of death. There is no difference in the soul during  any
of these modifications of the physcical body and there is no  difference  in
the soul due to the natural process of receiving another  new body. One  who
is spiritually  intelligent  realizes  that  there  is  no  birth  or  death
associated with the soul and is not deluded by the apparent disfunctiong  of
the physical body even in the death of a son or father.
<p>
From this verse up  until  verse  30  beginning  with  dehi  nityam  avadhyo
meaning the embodied soul can never be destroyed, the use  of  the  singular
is in the collective sense referring to all existing  souls  and  this  does
not suggest that these embodied soul although of the nature of  the  Supreme
Soul are on the same paltform with.  This  collectivity  of  the  individual
souls referred to  is  taught  by  the  expert  preceptor  in  the  line  of
disciplic succession that the soul is eternal and never suject  in  any  way
to old age and death.
<p>
Statements supporting the varieagatedness of attaining  communion  with  the
Ultimate Consciousnes  can be  found  in  almost  all  of  the  chapters  of
Bhagavad-Gita and this variegatedness is supported based on the  context  by
which they are written. Statements such as those of great virtue whose  sins
have been dissolved, those  being freed from the delusion of the  dualities,
those great souls who possess the divine nature offer exclusive  worship  to
the Supreme Lord, with their minds and  lives  surrendered  to  the  Supreme
Lord,  those free from pride and infatuation, those  who have conquered  the
vice of attachment and those  whose  desires  have  completely  dissapeared,
This varieagatedness is delieanated for those whose nescience is  completely
dissolved, whose doubts have been dispelled by knowledge,  whose  minds  are
firmly established in God, whose are righteously  engaged in  promoting  the
welfare of all living entities whose sins have been  washed  away,  who  are
free from lust and anger, who have  controlled  their  minds  and  who  have
realised the Ultimate Truth.
<p>
If this were not the case then accepting the conception of  the  oneness  of
all souls in all bodies would  mean  that  we  all  would  have  a  singular
uniform experience. If we were all one soul then whether one were  sleeping,
another was waking and another  fainting,  all  would  experience  the  same
sensations of pleasure  pain simultaneously.  Moreover  there  would  be  no
difference in anyones perception due to the  absence  of  any  individuality
and perceptions of you are and I am. But it is factually not  like  this  in
this  world  and  this  can  be  clearly  understood  by   ones   individual
consciousness. Therefore it is established that those who  propound  oneness
of the soul in all living entities are mistaken  for  even  in  the  eternal
soul there is also varieagatedness. So  regarding  death  of  the  soul  and
other such fallacious arguements those with spiritual  intelligence  neither
lament nor are deluded.
<p>
