<p><div align=justify><p>
It might be questioned that if the soul is eternal due to the  impossibility
of ever being able to be destroyed then why is it that feelings  of  remorse
arise at the demise of family members and loved ones. To clarify  this  Lord
Krishna states that it is only the physical body which is  made  up  of  the
five fundamental elements of material existence: being  earth,  water,  air,
fire and ether and which is the vehicle for  enjoying  the  fruits  of  ones
actions which is subject to destruction. Countless mothers and  fathers  and
countless sons and daughters all established with experience in  this  world
have come and gone and will come and go in the future. There  are  countless
of places of joy and countless of places of grief in  the  worlds  but  only
the unintelligent  are affected by there influenced and not the  spiritually
intelligent. The soul is always eternal  but  what  the  soul  is  pervading
which is known to be both the physical body  and  the  subtle  body  of  all
living entities  is not eternal and subject to  destruction.  Only  what  is
eternal can be determined as being truly real what is  not  eternal  can  be
deemed as unreal. So there is no doubt however that  the  physical  body  is
perishable  and  hence  not  eternal  as  it  is  composed  of  destructible
substances. This is on the authority of the Vedic scriptures.
<p>
It might be wondered that if the soul is eternal and indestructible  why  is
this not perceived at the time of death? This  is  also  clarified  by  Lord
Krishna with the use of the word apramesya meaning inconceivable. It is  not
possible to cognisize the soul as it is this  or  it  is  that  because  not
being on the material platform although embodied in a physical  body;  there
is no material conception to compare it to by the strenghth  of  ones  mind.
Unless and until one has received the mercy  of  the  Supreme  Lord  by  the
direct connection of the authentic spiritual master who is in  the  line  of
one of the four empowered and authorised channels of  disciplic  succession,
there is no possibility of perceiving the soul. It is to be  known  only  in
this way  is  this  is  on  authority  of  the  Vedic  scriptures.  Whatever
apprehension one experiences in  the  physical  body  that  apprehension  is
destructible; but the soul is never subjected to this. To the  contrary  the
soul is apprehended only by the apprehension of I know, I am,  I  experience
etc. and as it is immortal the soul should never be  lamented  for.  Neither
should the body be lamented for because it is perishable.  Therefore  Arjuna
is being instructed to unsnare himself from his delusion and do his duty.
<p>
