<p><div align=justify><p>
Even when the soul has  departed  from  the  physical  body  and  no  longer
connected as is inevitable at the time of death and the bodies of  respected
elders like Bhishma are no longer perceptible still what  is  the  necessity
for grief? To this Lord  Krishna  states  that  all  is  unmanifest  in  its
primordial state which is characterised by  the  three  qualities  known  as
sattva, rajas and tamas and which is a  prior   stage  of  creation  to  the
illusory energy and material creation. All living entities  have  bodies  in
substratum  as consciousness  and  this  is  the  original  matter  of   all
existence which is beyond perception due to its being extremely  subtle  and
subatomic in essence. But this in no way indicates that there is before  all
this an antecedent non-existence as the  logicians  and  the  impersonalists
opine due to there inability to perceive this  extremely  subtle,  subatomic
nature. This original matter although extremely  subtle  and   subatomic  is
revealed  in  the  Vedic  scriptures  and  is   perceived   by   one   whose
consciousness has attained the realization of that state. Thus they  are  of
the same nature although there  is  modification  during   the  intermediate
stage from  birth  to  death  as  is  established  in  the   Vedanta  Sutra,
II:XV,XVI of Vedavyasa which states: because of the existence of the  cause,
the effect  is  perceived;  the  effect  is  non-different  from  the  cause
although  being  posterior because it is existent in the cause.
<p>
It should not under any circumstances be erroneously assumed or  mistakingly
believed that from a non-existent condition the existent  was  produced  and
that because of the  cause  being  non-existent  then  the  effect  is  non-
existent and thus the world is also  non-existent.  This  has  already  been
refuted and  clarified  by  Vedavyasa  in  Vedanta-Sutra,  II:XIX  where  it
states: That as a cloth is non-different from  its  threads,  an  effect  is
also non-different from it's cause. So how can it  be  reconciled  that  the
something  can  be  produced  from  nothing  as  those  hypothesising   that
existence can manifest from the non-existent.
<p>
If we were to accept our origin as being non-existent  then  we  can  accept
that the oil of sesame seeds is produced from sand but this has  never  been
seen or heard. Because it is subatomic it is imperceptible  and  yet  it  is
still existing. Therefore in the matter of the existence of living  entities
the unmanifest, imperceptibly subtle, transforms itself  into  the  manifest
by  modification  which  is  known  as  birth  and  after  some  time  again
transforms itself into the unmanifest which is known as death. So  when  the
correct understanding of birth and death is realized then what  possibly  is
the necessity for lamentation as it is not befitting one who is situated  in
spiritual intelligence.
<p>
