<p><div align=justify><p>
Why is it that the scholars who have studied the Vedas so fastidiously  fail
to  possess  the  resolute  intelligence?  It  is  because  they  could  not
comprehend the essence of the Vedic scriptures and subsequently they  missed
understanding the true purport of the Vedas. This  Lord  Krishna  emphasises
with the word avipascitah meaning the ignorant  who  are  not  knowledgeable
are attracted to flowery descriptions in  the  Vedas  even  as  a  beautiful
flowery creeper may be  attractive  although  it  is  poisonous.  But  these
living entities are  ignorant and not actual  scholars  of  Vedanta  because
they are only devoted to those parts of the Vedas  which  help  them  secure
material opulence in this  life  and  the  next.  Such  statements  like  by
performing some ritual one can obtain  imperishable  merit  or  by  drinking
Soma nectar one can become immortal, etc. Their conception  of  devotion  is
being devoted to pursuing heavenly delights and they  even  foolishly  argue
that there is nothing more beyond  the  rewards  of  heavenly  pleasures  to
attain. Why is this so for them? It is because their minds are  obsessed  by
desires due to addiction to material pleasures experienced by  contact  with
the senses of taste, touch, seeing, hearing and smelling. So they look  upon
heaven although heaven is still in  the  material  existence  as  being  the
supreme goal. This is  because  in  heaven  there  is  neither  old  age  or
sickness, everything is beautiful and a wonder to behold  and  the  facility
to enjoy fully is increased a thousand fold.  So  all  their  activities  in
this life are enacted solely for the sake of accuring benefits in  order  to
reside in the heavenly  spheres  where  they  can  enjoy  and  enjoy  for  a
seemingly unlimited time span.  But  when  their  merit  has  expired  after
enjoying the delights of heaven in various wonderful ways  to  their  hearts
content they will again take birth on earth in a  rich  and  learned  family
who also are following the flowery phrases of the Vedas and they will  again
follow this path and at lifes end transmigrate to the heavenly planets  once
again to enact the process. By being born into situations  of  opulence  and
prosperity  allows  one  ample  means   and   facility   to   perform   very
extravagantly  the  various  prescribed  rituals  such   as   astrologically
performing activities on the auspicious days each month such as  purnima  to
obtain the maximum result. Thus again and again from body to body  they  are
continuously revolving like a waterwheel. In special situations  Indra,  the
ruler of the demi-gods  sometimes  appoints  one  of  them  as  a  gandharva
celestial musician or as an aspara celestial damsel among the  demigods  for
the duration of time their merit warrants.
<p>
