<p><div align=justify><p>
If the rewards like heaven are of such an impermanent  nature  then  why  do
the Vedas which are eternally perfect and beneficial for all  beings  enjoin
practices aimed at achieving heavenly spheres. To answer this  Lord  Krishna
states that the Vedic scriptures deals with  the  three  modes  of  material
nature which are goodness, passion and ignorance and  all  beings  are  born
into these three modes of material nature. Some beings have a  preponderance
for goodness, others for passion and others for  ignorance  while  some  are
mixed. These modes are conditioned within  the  mind  and  they  typify  the
three types of created beings. With exception of  the  Upanisads  the  Vedic
scriptures dealing with the three  modes  gives  prescribed  activities  and
their results. Whatsoever one desires to obtain in heaven  the  prescription
is enjoined for them to achieve  it  and  the  description  of  the  various
rewards are eulogised as well as the rituals for their  fulfilment.  If  the
Vedas were not to reveal and elaborate a way  for  those  within  the  three
modes to benefit  themselves  according  to  the  three  modes  of  material
nature. Then those locked in the cycle of  birth  and  death  would  forfeit
both their opportunities.  Firstly  unaware  of  the  reward  of  liberation
beyond the three modes  and  thus  being  oblivious  to  it  would  miss  it
altogether and secondly if their was  no  material  goal  which  they  could
strive for they would lose faith in spiritual knowledge without rituals  and
practices giving them the means to acquire their  cherished  goals  such  as
heavenly delights and thus they would lose both chances bequeathed  to  them
with birth into material existence. So  it  is  justly  so  that  the  Vedic
scriptures deal with the three modes of material nature as they explain  the
rituals that bring benefits for all those subject to the influence of  these
modes. But Lord Krishna is  instructing  through  Arjuna  to  be  free  from
desires  of  reward  and  go  beyond  the  influence  of  the  three   modes
maintaining no faith in heaven and  the  rituals  prescribed  for  enjoyment
therein for these things are temporary even though they are enjoined in  the
scriptures.
<p>
It may be put forth that one may become  indifferent  to  heavenly  delights
but that the basic requirements for human existence such as  food,  clothing
and shelter which are also veritable modifications of  the  three  modes  of
material nature are impossible to ignore  and  become  indifferent  too.  In
answer to this Lord Krishna explains to be free from dualities  like  praise
and blame, heat and cold, pleasure and pain.  Being  free  from  them  means
being unattached to them. How is this to  be  done?  By  enduring  them  and
becoming established in pure spiritual consciousness. Its characteristic  is
patience and endurance uninfluenced by passion or covered by ignorance.  One
should always be tempered by patience for one  without  patience  is  easily
overpowered by passion and ignorance and becomes  uncontrolled  and  fearful
in situations involving the three modes of material  nature.  So  we  should
overcome the hindrances of passion and ignorance  and  maintain  a  balanced
state of equilibrium.
<p>
But in all this one with worldly  possessions  desirous  of  increasing  and
protecting them may wonder how they may maintain themselves in the  material
nature. To this Lord  Krishna  reiterates  niryoga-ksema  become  free  from
conceptions of acquisition and preservation. But how then would one  sustain
their lives? By atmavan firmly established  in  spiritual  consciousness  of
the soul. The essence  is  to  understand  that  the  Supreme  Lord  is  the
fulfiller and bestower of all desires. So one should only  seek  His  refuge
and accept His shelter. Never fear nor  seek  any  other  succour  from  any
other  source  for  the  Supreme  Lord  will  provide  all  sustenance   and
maintenance to those who understanding Him are fully surrendered.
<p>
