<p><div align=justify><p>
The question may arise that if one  seeking  liberation  from  the  material
existence should instead acquire firmness in spiritual  knowledge  and  then
what is the use of actions.  To this Lord Krishna  instructs  that  everyone
has the right to perform actions in  order  to  purify  ones  existence  and
advance in spiritual knowledge. But one should not cultivate  ones  mind  to
think that by the right  to  perform  actions  one  receives  rewards.  This
mentality is destructive to spiritual advancement because then one will  get
attachment to the actions and then subsequently  to  the  rewards.  So  Lord
Krishna emphasises never be attached to  the  rewards  of  actions  or  even
consider the rewards because this attachment will  keep  up  locked  in  the
material existence. A living entity performing actions  without  considering
the rewards will never develop the fragmentation  and  indeterminate  nature
of one whose mentality is attached to the fruits of  their  actions.  It  is
also important to  understand  that  it  is  not  that  the  person  who  is
performing actions without attachment to the rewards will  not  receive  the
rewards thereof. To the contrary they  will  certainly  receive  rewards  as
well but the difference is they are not concerned about the  reward  do  not
let reward be the reason for the motivation of  their  activities.  We  must
perform all of our actions without being motivated  by  the  fruit.  Now  in
contrast it may be proposed  that  instead  of  performing  actions  without
motivation to the rewards perhaps it might be better to perform  no  actions
at all. To this Lord Krishna instructs that one should neither  be  attached
to inaction of not performing ones  prescribed  activities.  We  should  not
allow our egos to dictate to us that we should be inactive because  then  we
incur the sin of non-committance in performing our natural  duties  everyday
and duties in special  circumstances  and  thus  not  being  responsible  as
declared in Vedic scriptures. One  inclines  towards  spiritual  advancement
should  never  perform  prohibited  actions  and  should  avoid   performing
frivolous actions but with the understanding of  responsibility  one  should
always perform ones obligatory activities daily and occasionaly.
<p>
