<p><div align=justify><p>
If as in the previous verse Arjuna has determined that  life  would  not  be
worth living even if winning the battle then it  might  be  questioned  what
destined designation does he assign for himself? To this  query  Arjuna  has
now determined in his mind that unconditional surrender to the Supreme  Lord
Krishna is the greatest panacea than any other  means  prescribed  in  Vedic
scriptures. The Vedic scriptures reveal that He who  originated  the  entire
creation, from whose breath emanated the eternal Vedas for Brahma to  speak,
that Supreme Personality, omniscient and  effulgent  is  He  who  should  be
sought for shelter. Also in the books of law in  the  Vedic  culture  it  is
written that He who originated Brahma and protects the eternal Vedas  is  He
the Supreme Lord Krishna, all knowing and effulgent  who  should  be  sought
for shelter. Those who seek shelter of the Supreme Lord  Krishna  are  never
deluded. Lord Krishna is known as Janardana or He  who  always  removes  the
ignorance of His devotees. Arjuna has lost the power  of  discrimination  in
knowing what is beneficial for himself and what is not.  So  realizing  this
he tells Lord Krishna that he is surrendering to  Him  whose  power  is  not
known  by  Brahma  or  Siva  and  whose   attributes   and   potencies   are
transcendental to the material existence. Who is an ocean of qualities  such
as compassion and mercy and this Lord  Krishna  has  descended  Himself  and
incarnated in the Vrsni dynasty in the family of Vasudeva  for  the  benefit
of His devotees and all those who follow righteousness in accordance to  the
Vedic scriptures who are eligible to receive the  mercy  and  compassion  of
the Supreme Lord.
<p>
According to Vedic scriptures one who dies in this  world  without  becoming
self-realized is a  miser.  One  is  called  a  miser  who  is  desitute  of
knowledge of the nature and qualities of their  immortal  soul.  In  worldly
parlance one is known as a miser who is extremely stingy with  their  money.
Miserliness here is the affliction  of  weakness  regarding  ones  spiritual
identity and integrity. Discriminatory power weakened  by  vices  forms  the
delusion which  bewilders  the  intelligence.  Arjuna  whose  ignorance  was
removed due to the compassion of the  Lord for His devotees,  realized  this
and  unconditionally  surrendered  to  Lord  Krishna  with  the  words  tvam
prapannam meaning surrendered unto you  and  asks  the  Lord  for  spiritual
guidance as confirmed by the words sadhi mam instruct me.  Arjuna  qualifies
his own fitness to receive these  instructions  from  Lord  Krishna  by  the
words sisyah te aham meaning I am your disciple. This was stated  by  Arjuna
so that Lord Krishna would understand that he was serious and not doubt  his
intentions that he was a fit recipient for the  Lords  mercy  and  give  him
instructions out of His causeless compassion.
<p>
