<p><div align=justify><p>
Lord Krishna’s reply begins with O sinless one  infering  that
Arjuna is fit to  be  instructed.  But  as  you  are  doubting
understand that the  Lord  did  not  prescribe  two  unrelated
paths, karma yoga the yoga of actions and jnana yoga the  yoga
of knowledge. Lord Krishna states that in this world these are
the two paths aspirants  can  take  which  lead  to  moksa  or
liberation. But they both depend upon qualification  as  jnana
yoga is suitable for one type of human being and karma yoga is
suitable for another type. What  has  been  presented  in  the
previous chapter was from the point of view of  jnana yoga.
<p>
There is a distinction to be found regarding qualification  as
there are yogis  who  have  also  cultivated  knowledge  while
performing activities and realised the atma or soul by dint of
their  actions.  Their  minds  becoming  pure  by   meditation
directly worshipping  the  Supreme  Lord  within  their  heart
without desire for rewards as Lord Krishna states  in  chapter
II verse sixty-one beginning with tani sarvani controlling all
the  senses.  But  those  aspirants  who  have  not   acquired
spiritual knowledge must purify their minds  by  the  yoga  of
actions without desiring any  reward.  Then  selfless  actions
like these  can  be  utilised  to  cultivate  the  desire  for
spiritual knowledge. Lord Krishna states in chapter  II  verse
forty-seven that we have the right to perform actions but  not
to desire the fruits.
<p>
One should not assume that the distinctions  in  qualification
is merely the differences between the  aspirants  because  one
may  have  an  entirely  different  nature  according  to  the
situation. An example of this is a person overcoming death  in
the form of negligence by  performing  actions  designated  to
overcome nescience as given in the Isavasopanisad II the  text
states: overcoming death with nescience one attains liberation
through knowledge which means removing the impurities  of  the
mind with knowledge which is caused by  nescience  and  attain
liberation. Following this line of reasoning  the  purport  is
that one is not qualified for jnana yoga as long as the desire
for liberation is present.  Only  when  the  mind  has  become
purified and is completely free from all desires by performing
karma yoga without any  desire  for  reward  does  one  become
qualified. So for this reason the  Supreme  Lord  Krishna  has
presented this twofold spiritual path.
<p>
In closing it  should  be  understood  that  one  who  without
performing karma yoga in their present life but is situated in
jnana yoga cultivating spiritual knowledge,  their  purity  of
mind should be considered as  a  result  of  performing  karma
yoga in their previous birth and this is how they were able to
attain jnana yoga so easily. Thus there is no contradiction in
the presentation of the two in any way.
<p>
