<p><div align=justify><p>
After declaring that a <i>yogi</i> or one perfecting the science of the  individual
consciousness attaining communion with the  ultimate  consciousness  is  the
best of all ascetics and  others  mentioned  in  the  previous  verse.  Lord
Krishna concludes this chapter by declaring that the <i>yogi</i> which is  best  of
all  is  the  one  who  is  endowed  with  faith  implicitly  following  the
instructions of  the  bonafide  spiritual  master  in  Vedically  authorised
disciplic succession and devoted wholeheartedly  to  worshipping  internally
and externally Lord Krishna, the Supreme Lord above all Lords, the ocean  of
unlimited auspicious attributes such eternity, knowledge and bliss  as  well
as affection, compassion and mercy, who is the refuge of all,  the  bestower
of all benedictions and auspiciousness, the destroyer of all  obstacles  and
impediments , who incarnated as Himself  in  His  original  spiritual  form.
Lord  Krishna  is  the  primal  cause  of  all  creation  and  the  ultimate
controller of all living beings. Lord Krishna is  described  by  names  like
Paramesvara the Supreme Controller, Bhagavan the possessor of all  opulences
and potencies, Purusa the highest personality etc. as  well  as  names  like
Govinda meaning He who is the  object  of  delight  for  the  cows  and  the
senses, and Vasudeva or He who is all pervading  and  from  whom  everything
manifests, and Hari  meaning  He  who  dissolves  all  inauspiciousness  and
captures by love the hearts of His devotees. Lord Krishna
Incarnates to fulfil the aspirations of His devotees who are constantly
worshipping Him by adoration, salutation, meditation etc. with their minds
concentrated solely in exclusive devotion to the omniscient and omnipotent
Supreme Lord Krishna without ever any desire for anything in return for
their devotion. Such thoughts spontaneously arise in the mind by the
teachings of the bonafide spiritual master in authorised disciplic
succession, whom one has the grace to serve as a result of abundant
meritorious activities performed in innumerable previous births. This
person is immersed internally upon the Supreme Lord Krishna with exclusive
devotion. Such a person is considered to be the most elevated and the best
of all yogis. The understanding is that Lord Krishna is advising Arjuna to
also become the best of all yogis.
<p>
Thus ends the first group of six chapters of the Karma Yoga section
comprised of the teachings on the nature of the atma or soul, meditation on
the atma after controlling the senses and the mind while developing
detachment and renunciation. In this sixth chapter Lord Krishna spoke of
detachment leading to renunciation and the cessation of activities with
desire for rewards through yoga as the means to moksa. Also instructions
were given regarding the atma's relation to all other atma's as well as to
the Supreme Lord because to become the best of all yogis, atma tattva or
realisation of the soul is essential being the most intimate and exclusive
means to attain the Supreme Lord. Finally in conclusion Lord Krishna
revealed the unassailable superiority of His devotee,
<p>
