<p><div align=justify><p>
Why are not all beings able to acquire knowledge about the Supreme Lord
Krishna? He who is manifest in a wondrous, transcendental human-like form
so illustrious, performing His lilas or magnificent, phenomenal pastimes,
decked with peacock feather, flower garland down to His knees, and glorious
flute in His forest pastimes and in His royal pastimes possessing such
transcendental items as Srivatsa the golden line on His chest, Kaustabha
His resplendent transcendental gemstone, Pancajanya  the conch, Saranga the
bow, Kaumadi the mace  and others. Who is the subjugator of both Brahma the
demigod in charge of creation and Shiva the demigod in charge of
destruction. Who is the chastiser of Indra the chief of all the demigods as
well as the reprimander of Kamadeva the demigod of love. Who to protect
dharma or eternal righteousness was the destroyer of countless demons in
His forest pastimes such as Putana, Trnavarta, Kesi  and Aghasura among
others and in His royal pastimes He destroyed even more demons such as
Narakasura, Jaradandha, Paudraka, Sisupala and many more. The Supreme Lord
Krishna whose potencies are beyond the realm of the mind and the senses and
who is the sole objective of meditation by the enlightened yogis.  Why are
not all beings able to acquire knowledge about Him?
<p>
Lord Krishna speaks naham prakasah sarvasya meaning He is not revealed to
everyone. He is samavrtah or concealed. He allows the ignorant who are
bereft of faith be oblivious of His divine glory and His purely spiritual
form which is endowed with qualities and attributes that are completely
transcendental to prakriti or the material substatum pervading all worldly
objects in the physical existence. His supernatural powers and lilas or
phenomenal pastimes are not known, heard or witnessed by all. Only those
who are exclusively devoted to Lord Krishna are aware of His power and
majesty. As the Supreme Lord Himself spoke to Narada Muni that: One by one,
then two by two, then in a group of three, great sages desired to see the
form of the Supreme Lord Krishna; but they were unable to, nor will they
ever be able too until they have developed exclusive devotion for Him. Only
by bhakti or exclusive loving devotion can the Supreme Lord Krishna be
known. Hence the ignorant, all who are not Lord Krishna's devotees fail to
recognise Him as the Supreme Being. For He is not born as an embodied soul
forced to accept a physical body like all embodied beings by the dictates
of karma or reactions from previous actions. Lord Krishna manifests Himself
by His own sweet will to perform His divine lilas or phenomenal pastimes
for sport; but the people of the world merely view Him as another human
being only blest to have amazing and extraordinary qualities and
characteristics.
<p>
<p>
