<p><div align=justify><p>
Therefore  due  to  disrespecting  and  deriding  the  Supreme  Lord  living
entities  incur  great  sin  and  demerits  and  becoming  bereft   of   all
righteousness they instead sink into demoniac activities hence becoming  fit
candidates for entering hell. Such negligent fools unconsciousness of  their
own best welfare never meditate on the Supreme  Lord  Krishna  instead  they
hopelessly  pursue  temporary  material  rewards  which  they  think   their
concocted gods will fulfil.  They  simply  waste  their  time  indulging  in
futile actions worshipping lesser gods in vain. Lessor  because  no  god  or
even demi-god can bestow  any  benedictions  without  the  sanction  of  the
Supreme Lord and this is the factual reality. Because such beings  disregard
the Supreme Lord and even blaspheme Him, all there endeavours have no  power
to succeed as He is the ultimate bestower of all rewards.
<p>
The Brahma Sutra III.II.IIL states: From the Supreme Lord  comes  the  fruit
of actions for this is logical. So all  of  the  knowledge  of  the  foolish
offenders who disregard and disrespect the Supreme Lord is in vain  with  no
purpose because it has no connection to the Supreme Lord and has arisen  out
of the speculative  concoctions  of  hypothetical  philosophies  and  pseudo
religions which is conclusively confirmed by the fact that  they  ignore  or
deny the paramount position of the Supreme  Lord  Krishna.  Thus  they  have
embraced beliefs which are  false  and  degraded  and  sinking  further  and
further into <i>tamas</i> or darkness they eventually become  demoniac,  performing
heinous activities with thoughts of violence  against  other  living  beings
for food, for power for dominion. Possessed by false ego,  lust,  arrogance,
envy, violence and vindictiveness they become totally  deluded  and  adverse
to  righteousness which is the actual purpose of human existence  and  human
evolution  and  being  so  degraded  they  are  adverse  and   antagonistic,
belligerent and bellicose  to the Supreme Lord. The  consequences  for  such
deluded behaviour will  be  specifically  addressed  later  in  chapter  16,
verses XVIII to XX where Lord Krishna states that such sinful  and  degraded
beings are cast into the wombs  of  lower  and  lower  species  of  demoniac
beings birth after birth.
<p>
Narada Muni states in the Sabhaparva section of Mahabharata: That those  who
do not worship the Supreme Lord Krishna should be  considered  as  dead  and
one should not even converse with them. Prahlad states in the in  the  Vaman
Purana: That one who is against Lord Krishna has no value in this world  and
all their knowledge, penance, hard work and efforts as well as fame are  all
fruitless and for naught. The Bhagavad Purana X.XXIII.XL states: Fie on  our
three births being seminal, by initiation  and  sacrificial.  Fie  upon  our
learning, fie upon our vows, fie upon our  erudition,  fie  upon  our  noble
birth, fie upon our expertise in rituals. Because  becoming  full  of  pride
all theses activities have diverted us from true  devotion  to  the  Supreme
Lord. The Skanda Purana also follows this theme by stating: One who is  Lord
Krishna's devotee is the real performer of all righteous activities and  one
who is not Lord Krishna's devotee is the performer  of  all  sinful  actions
for a person who performs righteous acts without being  a  devotee  of  Lord
Krishna still must go to hell.
<p>
