<p><div align=justify><p>
By the undeviating determination and firm resolve of one's  own  will  power
abandoning forever all sinful and unrighteous conduct  one  swiftly  becomes
virtuous, endowed with the auspicious qualities that are naturally found  in
the devotees of Lord Krishna such as humility and  compassion  and  as  such
gradually attains everlasting peace with <i>moksa</i> or liberation  from  material
existence and soon joins the Supreme Lords associates. Normally such  sinful
and unrighteous conduct embarked upon previously would disqualify  one  from
peaceful existence and bring ruin to one's life in this world and the  next.
But such is not the case for Lord Krishna's devotee and  to  emphasise  this
He encourages Arjuna to be assured with the words  <i>kaunteya  pratijanahi  na</i>
<i>me bhakta pranasyati</i> meaning declare it boldly that Lord  Krishna's  devotee
never comes to ruin.
<p>
The understanding is that the absolute devotee who has unflinching faith  in
the Supreme Lord Krishna never comes to ruin even if previously  engaged  in
unrighteous conduct and bereft of  all  good  qualities.  Lord  Krishna  the
Supreme Personality, the Supreme Controller,  the  Supreme  Absolute  Truth,
who  possesses  an  ocean  of  infinite  auspicious   attributes   such   as
compassion,  tolerance,  forgiveness,  affection  and  who  is   by   nature
extremely kind towards simple devotees whose only refuge is Him. Others  who
are not His devotee never attain Him but  fall  into  the  clutches  of  the
servants of Yamaraj the demigod in charge of the realm of death  to  revolve
endlessly in <i>samsara</i>  the  perpetual  cycle  of  bith  and  death.  But  the
devotees of Lord Krishna never fall into the clutches  of  the  servants  of
Yamaraj and consequently are not subjected to the bondage of <i>samsara.</i>  There
are so many examples of the later  in  the  Vedic  scriptures  such  as  the
sinful Ajamila who at the moment of death called out his sons name  Narayana
and being the name of an expansion of Lord Krishna was instantly saved  from
the servants of Yamaraj sent to collect him. The elephant Gagendra  who  was
being devoured alive  by  a  ferocious  crocodile  when  remembering  Vishnu
another expansion of Lord Krishna was saved from death. The  hunter  Valmiki
whose mountain of sins was so high that he was unable to chant any  of  Lord
Krishna's names so his guru Narada Muni had him  chant  Mara  the  name  for
water which is the name of Rama pronounced in  reverse  which  purified  his
existence saving him from the servants of Yamaraj and enabling him to  write
the original Ramayana. The coutesan Cintamani who renounced  her  profession
and chanting the holy names of  Lord  Krishna  was  saved  as  well.  It  is
revealed in the Vedic scriptures that  Yamaraj  the  fearsome  lord  of  the
realm of death carefully instructs  his  servants  to  never  apprehend  the
Vaisnava devotees of Lord Krishna at their moment of death as  they  have  a
different destination then hell so his servants should stay  far  away  from
them.  Yamaraj  has  jurisdiction  over  all  mortals  accept  the  Vaisnava
devotees of Lord Krishna who chant His name incessantly and are  surrendered
totally to Him.
<p>
The Sattvata  scriptures  states  that  one  whose  conduct  was  previously
unrighteous, who never  offered  anything  to  the  Supreme  Lord,  who  had
abominable habits, who was ungrateful and cruel; but  who  eventually  takes
complete shelter of the Supreme Lord worshipping  Him  exclusively-  Such  a
person is to be considered venerable due to the  blessings  of  the  Supreme
Lord power.  The Vaisnava Dharmottara states: Even though  the  devotees  of
Lord Krishna may have been previously inclined to committing great sins,  as
soon as they became His devotee they were relieved of all reactions  to  all
previous actions like a  lotus  taken  from  water.  As  a  chronic  disease
dissolves away as soon as one  receives  proper  medical  treatment  from  a
physician. In the same way the enormous  mountain  of  reactions  to  sinful
activities are all dissolved as soon as  one  surrenders  to  the  spiritual
preceptor in one of the four authorised  channels  of  disciplic  succession
taking complete shelter of Lord Krishna or any of His authorised  expansions
or incarnations. Thus it has been clearly  elucidated  that  Lord  Krishna's
devotee are never subjected to inauspicious situations and circumstances-
<p>
