<p><div align=justify><p>
Why is such a statement being put forth? Never was there a time when  I  was
not. The Supreme Lord Krishna  being  eternal,  such  a  statement  is  self
evident; but it was only given to illustrate the  point  that  even  as  the
Supreme Lord is eternal as confirmed in the Vedic scriptures, even  so,  you
and all these kings of the earth are also eternal.
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
Lord  Krishna  informs  Arjuna  that  due  to  fraternal  feelings  he   was
neglecting  his  own  nature  not  to   fulfil   his   duty   according   to
righteousness. Is it because of the  fear  of  losing  his  life  or  is  it
because of a lapse in  consciousness? The physical body is in  all  respects
subject to destruction so there is  no  purpose  in  being  frightened,  nor
should there be any concern over  the  possibility  of  destruction  of  the
individual consciousness because its nature is also eternal.
<p>
In the Skanda Purana it is stated:
<p>
There is no possibility of any destruction of the Ultimate Consciousness  of
the  Supreme  Lord  the  same   similarly   applies    to   the   individual
consciousness of all living entities. The Supreme Lord is eternal among  the
eternal, the Ultimate Consciousness among all individual consciousness,  the
One who so desiring manifests as the many. The connection and  disconnection
from the physical body is known as birth and death. Such  is  this  reality
for all living entities; but for  the  eternal  and  transcendental  Supreme
Lord this reality has no relevance and is in no way applicable.
<p>
Since  the  Supreme  Lord  may  appear  to  have  the  destruction  of   His
transcendental  body  and   the   transmigration   of   His   transcendental
consciousness to those who are deluded; this point  is  being  clarified  by
the word tu in the verse beginning na tu  evaham  meaning  but  I  certainly
never. Although such a doubt did not  arise  in  the  case  of  Arjuna,  the
resplendent Supreme Lord Krishna elucidates this point for the  benefit  and
welfare of all the worlds. Even though this dialogue is actually  spoken  in
confidence, through the medium  of  Mahabharata  by  the  mercy  of  Krishna
Dvaipayana Vyasa it is disseminated throughout the universe.
<p>
