<p><div align=justify><p>
This verse confirms that the soul is distinct from the body but by it  being
distinct does not make it independent. Only when the physical body  is  seen
changing  through  infancy,  childhood,  youth  etc.   can   this   separate
distinctness be perceived and thus confirmed until the soul  giving  up  its
present body acquires a new body and in some rare cases a living entity  can
recollect their past lives.
<p>
The physical body is obviously not what has  the  experience  of  childhood,
youth, etc as is evidenced when the body is  dead.  The  body  is  just  the
container  and  when  the  soul  has  departed.  The  body  has  no  further
identification with the soul leading itself  to  experience  that  it  is  a
human being or tiger or worm or whatever physical form it possessed  as  the
case may be. But due to the fact that the soul remains within  the  physical
body during deep sleep similar to the ego centered mind; it is  possible  to
perceive the existence of the soul as an independent  consciousness  whereas
the body is merely like a wooden box.
<p>
This is verified by direct experience from the transcendental  authority  of
the Vedas. It cannot be conceived  by  any  mental  or  intellectual  genius
because it is beyond the scope of materialism. Nor  can  the  Vedas  reflect
any vestige of human intellect or human endeavour within them  because  they
come exclusively from the divine revelations  of  Krishna  Dvaipayana  Vyasa
avatara an authorised incarnation of the Supreme Lord confirmed by  name  in
the Vedic scripture known as Srimad Bhagavatam or Bhagavat Purana
<p>
Without understanding that there is a transcendental source to  the  eternal
Vedas, the establishment of statements  regarding  righteousness  cannot  be
applicable for all eternity and if they are not accepted for all  time  then
there would have been no reason for them to exist and they  would  not  have
been the basic foundation for the instruction of righteousness. Without  the
universality of these premises the denial of what is  not  truth  would  not
have been possible. There would then have been no connection  to  eternality
from any established source. Therefore the principles found in  the  eternal
Vedas constitute what is real. Otherwise without superior guidance  from  an
eternal source nothing in this life can be accepted  as  absolute  evidence.
Things that we have heard  would  have  no  relevance  as  they  would  have
nothing to reference  it  to.  Otherwise  one  would  have  no  thoughts  or
response to this that you are now reading. It would appear as a  figment  of
the imagination. It would then be a cause of misery unless one  was  due  to
self-realisation an  exception  to  this.  If  activities  are  judged  with
reference  to  righteousness  or  unrighteousness   then  facades  of  being
unaware are not valid and intention is automatically exposed.
<p>
The  transcendental  statements  found  in  the  Vedas  are  eternal   being
established beyond the purview  of time, hence the  Vedas  are  self-evident
and are to be known as absolute giving perfect  knowledge  of  the  Ultimate
Truth. By the authority of the Vedas the wise are never  deluded.  Otherwise
why would there be any sorrow thinking that the destruction of the  physical
body is the destruction of the soul. The soul cannot be destroyed. The  soul
is eternal thus the statement not  that  you  were  not.  Not  even  by  the
destruction of the physical body. Hence the statement dehinah   meaning  the
soul being the occupier of the  deha  which  is  the  body.  Even  with  the
physical body changing its form as from infancy to childhood to  youth  etc.
or being pitiful on account of old  age  etc.  With  the  deterioration  and
demise of the body certainly comes the acceptance of another new body.
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
The Supreme Lord Krishna to illustrate that there is no possibility  of  His
having a physical body uses the word dehinah as  an  adjective  to  describe
the plight of all embodied beings by stating: with the  transmigration  from
one  body  to  another.   Therefore  perceiving  it  as   just   a   further
modification of the body coming after old age there is no justification  for
sorrow.
<p>
