<p><div align=justify><p>
Even then, in the  absence  of  self-realisation  there  is  always  sorrow.
therefore it is clarified thus matra means sensuous experience  and  sparsas
means contact with them thus matra-sparsas is the interaction of the  senses
with sense objects. These interactions are like hot  and  cold  or  pleasure
and pain. Although only the body is  what  is  actually  experiencing  these
things, anyone with lack of sufficient knowledge  who  considers  that  they
are their body automatically classifies the soul as the  body  as  well  and
this misconception is factually the cause of all sorrow.
<p>
The experience of sorrow does not affect  the  individual  consciousness  by
itself. Why is this? Because it appears and disappears.  If  these  contacts
of the senses were factually within the individual consciousness  then  they
would also exist in the state of deep sleep. Therefore since it  is  evident
that contact with the senses is experienced only in  the  waking  state  and
not in any other state; the summation is  clear  that  only  when  there  is
contact with the physical body which includes the mind, is there  an  effect
and this proves that the individual consciousness itself is not affected.
<p>
Regarding the individual consciousness there is  no  contact  of  the  sense
objects  except when it desires a relationship  through  the  experience  of
senses. Because of their nature of appearing and disappearing  like  objects
floating past on a river, they cannot be classified as eternal  due  to  the
fact they cease to exist during deep sleep. Hence they are  said  to  be  a-
nitya or not eternal.
<p>
Consequently when the individual consciousness is deluded into  relating  to
itself as  the  body,  pleasure  and  pain  is  experienced;  but  when  the
individual consciousness sees itself as  separate  from  the  physical  body
then the sorrow arising from the death of friends and  relatives  would  not
arise. Therefore it is by  rejection  of  ones  constitutional  position  as
individual consciousness and accepting the position of  considering  oneself
the body that the perception of pleasure, pain, happiness,  sorrow  and  all
the rest manifests.
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
Because of their temporary  nature  Lord  Krishna  counsels  that  reactions
arising in the body due to perceptions of the senses should be tolerated  as
they are temporary. Appearing and disappearing at
random with no auspices to the indivdual consciousness.
<p>
