<p><div align=justify><p>
The soul is eternal as verified in the Vedas. Why is the  soul  eternal?  Is
there anything else eternal as  well?  Hence  it  is  stated  in  the  verse
beginning  nasato  vidyate.  There  is  no  annihilation  of  a-sat  meaning
prakriti which is the material substratum or sat referring to  the  Ultimate
Truth because it is declared in the Visnu Purana that prakriti,  purusa  and
kala or time are eternal. Because the word vidyate has been seperately  used
in relation to sat and  a-sat  and  because  it  has  been  said  in  Srimad
Bhagavatam also  known  as  Bhagavat  Purana  that  a-sat  is  the  physical
manifestation and sat is of the subtle form the Ultimate Truth  of  reality,
a-sat is known as manifestation of sat, the unmanifest.  This  understanding
for both a-sat and sat and is confirmed by the word anta meaning  summation.
<p>
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
The actual sorrow  expressed  by  Arjuna  is  not  being  felt  because  the
consequences of war lead to misery  in  the  next  life.  The  rule  in  the
material existence is that every action  has  its  corresponding  and  equal
reaction, thus it is seen that by unrighteous actions there is no  happiness
and by righteous actions there can be no unhappiness.  The  words  referring
to sat bhavah are all connected to happiness and the words connected  to  a-
sat abhava  are those which are connected to sorrow.
<p>
Thus it is stated in Shabda Nirnaya that sat bhava is  sadhu  bhava,  having
meritorious disposition and we will see this  word  used  again  further  in
the Gita.   Therefore  for  whatever  is  in  righteousness   the  word  sat
is used. Whoever has thought they have  become  a-sat,  asat  brahmeti,  for
this person their personal conceptions have become  a-sat  and  consequently
they become sorrowful.
<p>
It should not be misconstrued that the purpose of this verse is to deny  the
existence of what is appearing now in the present, was  non-existing  before
creation and would be  non-existent  after  destruction.  This  would  be  a
contradiction in itself. The statement nasato vidyate bhavo is  specifically
used to emphasise a  spiritual  truth.  Although  in  normal  everyday  life
people relate to the material manifestation as if it did  not  exist  before
and will also cease to exist hereafter. For example a flower to  be  offered
to the Lord which blossomed today, did not exist last week and by next  week
it will have ceased to exist but still it is utilised while it is  here.  So
there is no reason to reflect that any of this is due to delusion.
<p>
Thus it is stated in the Brahma Tarka :
<p>
All acts prior to creation and all acts after the  dissolution  of  creation
cease to exist is the Vedic statement. If in each action the  specific  form
was not manifest before it was born but came to be formed only  later,  then
wisdom and  normal circumstances would not  justify  such  a  statement.  If
according to wisdom and normal circumstances  an  archetype  existed  before
the form came to exist then before anything is born  it  did  not,  in  fact
exist. Even due to the experiences of modification there is action  and  its
result. Because of these modifications the experiences of the physical  body
become apparent. Normal affairs in this world take place  on  the  basis  of
these modifications and the experience connected  with  these  modifications
solely.
<p>
It is not  correct  to  accept  that  this  world  is  made  up  of  special
attributes such  as  sat  the  Ultimate  Truth  due  to  its  perception  of
modification and  a-sat as the physical  manifestation  by  its  being  self
evident. Both the  experiences  are  subjected  to  delusion.  The  physical
manifestation is spoken as such because it is  evident  not  because  it  is
understood. If it is non-existent then  its  knowledge  is  without  purpose
even if it is non-manifesting.
<p>
A falsehood can never be validated by another  falsehood.  In  delusion  the
false appearing as truth can never be accepted as real. In normal  life  the
unreal cannot cease to be in any case. That which exists  as  its  form  may
also appear as real and the same is the case with delusion.
<p>
Even though it is indescribable, when what is real appears as  truth  verily
such appearance of truth cannot be accepted as false on the assumption  that
it is delusion. Thus the truth  which  appears  as  unreal  should  also  be
accepted then there is no contradiction.
<p>
In the Vedic scriptures it is stated  the  cosmic  manifestation  is  truth.
What is created is the  truth.  The  sages  and  rishi’s  who  contemplating
deeply describe the Ultimate Truth as Self evolved and Self evident  and  by
such words declare the eternal existence of all things created.
<p>
