<p><div align=justify><p>
This verse confirms that there is no  eternal  existence  for  the  physical
body. As when a mirror is destroyed the reflection in  the  mirror  is  also
destroyed; but this not true in regards  to  the  soul.  When  the  body  is
destroyed the soul is never destroyed for the soul  is  eternal.  Sharirinah
refers to the Supreme Lord in His manifestation as  the  indwelling  monitor
of all living entities. There is no destruction of the soul, it is  referred
to  as  indestructible.  Why  is  this  so?  Because  of  the  presence   of
imperceivable transcendental manifestation of the Supreme  Lord  within  the
heart of all living entities.  But there is no upadhi or limitation here  as
in the example of the destruction of the mirror,  where  the  reflection  is
destroyed. In this case the soul itself is the reflector through the  medium
of the individual  consciousness.  The  Supreme  Lord  is  unlimited,  there
exists no limitations for Him. The individual consciousness  of  the  living
entity attaining communion with the Ultimate Consciousness  of  the  Supreme
Lord realises the eternal  form  of  the  soul.  Thereafter  the  individual
consciousness attaining a direct connection to  the  Ultimate  Consciousness
is eternally absorbed  in  the  unlimited  bliss  of  the  Supreme  Ultimate
Personality.
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
For the sharirinah which  is  the  Supreme  Lord  in  His  manifestation  of
indwelling monitor of all living entities, there is the  appearance  of  the
destruction of the physical body. The physical bodybeing  the  container  in
the material existence by which the individual consciousness is  identified.
There is no space, attributes  or  completeness  for  the  living  entities.
Because without any alternative the  physical  body  has  its  own  inherent
attributes which are impelled by the anguish of birth, existence and death
<p>
The destruction of the physical body in battle is also a form of worship  of
the inconceivable Supreme Lord. The final state of destruction  being  under
the control of the Supreme Lord grants relief from both pain  and  pleasure.
By  surrendering  all  actions  to  the  Supreme  Lord  Krishna,  and  being
exclusively devoted to Him, one will be totally protected by Him.
<p>
Spoken  of  as  being  to  be  eternal  referring  to  the  soul,  the  word
indestructible is repeated and by the  statement  the  words  indestructible
and incomprehensible used in this  regard  are  directly  referring  to  the
Supreme Lord. By specifying the words ime dehe  the  eternal  transcendental
form  comprised  of  transcendental  consciousness  and  bliss  within   the
physical bodies of realised souls is revealed.
<p>
In the Srimad Bhagavatam it is stated:
<p>
Where rajas passion and tamas ignorance  do  not  have  any  effect  neither
truth, light nor influence of time. Where illusion exists not except at  its
source  of  reality.  Where  aspirants  both  noble  and  ignoble  earnestly
propitiate. Where He of beautiful darkish colour, with eyes like  a  hundred
blooming lotus flowers, attired in  shiny  yellow  garments,  splendid  with
perfect form, having His arms, neck  and  ears  adorned  with  precious  and
dazzling ornaments, wearing a flowing flower garland. Effulgent  and   self-
illuminating. Where the souls liberated from the ocean of  birth  and  death
go to and reside.
<p>
In the Parama smrti it is stated:
<p>
Acquiring  transcendental  consciousness  and  bliss  the  liberated   souls
imbibing the attributes of the Supreme Lord,  internally  and  externally  a
part of Him, enjoy the pleasures of devotional service to Him  according  to
their individual capacity.
<p>
Even after attaining the state of liberation there is  no  state  of  united
oneness of the individual  consciousness  of  the  living  entity  with  the
Ultimate Consciousness of the Supreme Lord. By realisation  of  this  wisdom
the living entities with  sincere  and  determined  effort  acquire  similar
attributes as the Supreme Lord.
<p>
In the Taittiriya Upanisad it is stated :
<p>
One who knows the Supreme Lord as the Ultimate Truth, as what  is  real,  as
what is knowledge and as what is infinite;  simultaneously  existing  within
the heart of all living entities as well as in the eternal  spiritual  world
has realised all there is that needs to be known.
<p>
Transcending to that state of  awareness  which  consists  of  total  bliss,
descending and ascending in various worlds, assuming the form  one  desires,
all actions manifesting according to one's desires,  one  sings  and  chants
the holy names of the Supreme Lord Krishna in sublime ecstasy.
<p>
All revel in ecstasy singing their attainment in the  accompaniment  of  the
liberated souls having  realised  their  own  eternal  spiritual  form.  The
Supreme Lord seeing them although  still  possessing  their  material  forms
makes sure that no trace of evil besets them  and  giving  them  the  divine
taste of immortality sees them as immortals controlling their senses.
<p>
Among those delivered, the four faced Brahma, the managing director of  this
universe, being extremely  well  endowed,  recites  the  Rig  Veda  in  full
devotion with one mouth.  With  his  second  mouth  he  recites  the  sacred
gayatri. With his third mouth he recites the Puranas  and  with  his  fourth
mouth he recites and meditates on the various incarnations  of  the  Supreme
Lord Krishna such as fish, tortoise, boar and others.
<p>
Realising the Supreme Lord within one's heart and within the heart of  every
living entity and subsequently acquiring one's eternal spiritual  form,  one
revels in exaltation performing loving devotional service to Him.  Thus  the
spiritually intelligent, transcending the dualities  of  material  existence
attains the transcendental state and acquires unparalleled affinity  to  the
Supreme Lord.
<p>
Attaining this transcendental state of affinity to the Supreme  Lord,  being
completely protected in this state, the individual soul  resides  blissfully
in  full  consciousness   according   to   the   gradation   of   individual
qualification determined by one's inherent attributes.  Humans,  celestials,
departed ancestors are superseded 100 fold by immortals, managerial  deities
and the deities of the elements along with Indra, Shiva and Brahma  in  this
order having one hundred times the attributes those who are liberated.  None
of these are equal to the Brahman even in the state of liberation.  Superior
1000 fold to the Brahman is Sri or Laksmi devi who resides as  the  pleasure
potency  of  each  and  every  incarnation  and  superior  to  her  are  the
authorised incarnations of the Supreme Lord Krishna. Only He as  the  source
of  all  creation,  being  endowed   with   innumerable   and   immeasurable
transcendental attributes has no one anywhere in existence superior or  even
equal to Him. But those possessing noble eyes like  lotus  petals  and  ears
like conch shells, imbibing His  attributes,  have  fraternal  feelings  and
become alike in mind with each other and with Him.
<p>
Where all desires are fulfilled in that state let me attain. By  such  words
of separation with one another  the  state  of  taratamya  or  gradation  is
confirmed even after attaining the state of liberation. Where in  liberation
everything has become even like unto the self, then who is it that  is  seen
and by whom.
<p>
In the Brihad Aranyak Upanisad it is stated:
<p>
Verily when in  that  state  of  liberation  there  is  no  seeing  although
everything is seen. Because of attaining the transcendental state,  becoming
imperishable in consciousness, there is nothing  perceived  other  than  the
transcendental state which permeates everything and which is the self.  Thus
there is nothing separate from the self which can be differentiated  and  in
this way everything can be seen as transcendental, as brahman.
<p>
Consequently with this proper understanding, statements such as knowing  the
supreme brahman one becomes like brahman or aham brahmasi which means  I  am
brahman understood in this light can be seen not to be in any  way  contrary
to Vedanta.
<p>
If by liberation the individual consciousness ceases to exist then  what  is
the purpose of deliverance? By this one could be  confused  and  bewildered;
but in Mahabharata  the reverend sage Yajnavalkya eradicated this  doubt  by
his clarifying statement that in this transcendental state all  the  mundane
academic perceptions of empirical knowledge cease to  exist  being  replaced
by  the transcendental perception and realisation  of  the  Ultimate  Truth.
How could it ever be possible that   cessation  of  mundane  perceptions  of
empirical knowledge could simultaneously cause cessation of the soul? It  is
not  possible  nor  can  it  ever  be  possible.  The  eternal  soul   being
independent from the mind and body is not subject to cessation.
<p>
Essentially the Supreme Lord Krishna is different from the creation  of  the
material manifestation. Because the universe is dependent upon  creation  it
is said to be different as it is. In regard to enjoyment of  the  senses  of
smell, sight etc. they are known to be perceived only  due  to  the  potency
generated by the presence of the soul. Thus the empirical experience of  the
self is similar to the realisation of the Supreme  Lord.  There  is  nothing
else is to be known, when one realises one's soul one realises  the  Supreme
Lord and everything is already known by realisation of  the  soul.  How  can
human effort alone be involved and in  the  absence  of  the  transcendental
soul what is the impetus for self-realisation? Therefore there  is  variance
in  empirical knowledge in relation to the  Supreme  Lord  Krishna  and  one
does not lose the ability to enjoy their association and  relationship  with
the Supreme Lord even after self-realisation, it cannot be otherwise.
<p>
When the soul does not see anything as different  from  its  own  self  then
there is no perception of separateness from  anything  and  a  oneness  with
everything. In the same way the  Supreme  Lord  does  not  see  anything  as
separate from Himself. Brahma and others are all different from the  Supreme
Lord therefore they appear separate from Him. But even though by their  very
nature they are different from Him, in the eyes of  the Supreme  Lord  there
is no difference He seeing them as part of Himself. When  one  attains  this
state  of  perception  there  is  no  separateness  between  the  individual
consciousness and the Ultimate Consciousness and there is no  delusion  ever
regarding knowledge of Lord Krishna's supreme position.
<p>
Technically all living  entities  can  be  designated  as  brahman  and  all
liberated souls can be designated as para brahman. The  material  substratum
known as prakriti can also be designated as para brahman as  well;  but  the
Supreme Lord Krishna's is the  supreme  para  brahman.  Neither  liberatated
souls nor the material substratum  can  be  superior  to  the  Supreme  Lord
Krishna. But by knowledge of Him, by knowledge of  His  name  and  form,  by
having knowledge of His sagacious instructions,  by  the  knowledge  of  His
pastimes, qualities and associatiates all  living  entities  can  experience
the essence of the Supreme Lord according to their qualification.  When  one
attains communion with the Supreme Lord how can there be  any  difficulties?
How can there be any ignorance? How can there be  any  bewilderment  in  the
absence of ignorance? It is not possible for one who is not devoted  to  the
Supreme Lord to be liberated by the mercy of the Supreme Lord.
<p>
From aheya the word aham has been derived  which  symbolises  the  immutable
Supreme Lord Krishna. Because He possesses all attributes  He  is  known  as
para brahman. He is known as asmi  because  he  destroys  all  evil  and  is
existing eternally. Being resplendent He is known as tvam. All  these  words
intimating activity, intimating elements  and  intimating  attributes  refer
solely to the Supreme Lord. Because He is the foremost among all  performers
of activities He is known as yushmat. Because He abides in the heart of  all
living entities with His potencies  He  is  known  by  the  word  asmat  and
because He is imperceivable He is known by the word tat.  On attaining self-
realisation one will understand that all these  indications  represent  only
His predominant role.
<p>
Having  studied  all  the  Vedas  the  sage  Svetaketu  becoming   extremely
conceited, arrogantly assumed because he was so knowledgeable  that  he  was
not human but a partial manifestation of the Supreme Lord Himself.  Thinking
thus, he became disrespectful to his own father. Seeing  that  his  son  was
deluded being devoid of proper etiquette, his father inquired from  him  how
had such inauspicious characteristics attached themselves  to  him;  telling
him that with all his studying  he  had  not  acquired  realisation  of  the
Supreme Lord, by whom knowing  the  essence  all  knowledge  is  known.  The
Supreme Lord being  predominate in Himself, with  the  cosmic  manifestation
created by Him, subservient only to Himself and  thus  knowing  the  Supreme
Lord in this way one acquires unfathomable wisdom. But if one  believes  the
Earth and the universe within the cosmic manifestation are  all  independent
of Him then they  are  deluded  and  such  delusion  brings  along  with  it
perpetual misery.
<p>
Knowledge that a clod of earth is the substance that  clay  pots  and  other
similar objects are fashioned from and made known and  the  knowing  of  the
word mrutika meaning eternal, one can  understand  what  is  transitory  and
impermanent. Similarly  by  knowledge  of  the  Supreme  Lord  Krishna,  the
Ultimate Personality, the creator of all, the cause of all  causes,  who  is
independent in Himself; the true knowledge of all existence is gained.  Even
attaining the state of liberation all living entities are under His  shelter
and subservient to Him. The  Supreme  Lord  is  omnipotent,  omniscient  and
omnipresent, full of all attributes. Within the Supreme Lord rests  all  the
universes thus one can never be on the same platform as the Supreme Lord.
<p>
Even as their is difference between a bird and a  thread,  the  essences  of
different flowers, the ocean and a river, salt from  water,  a  person  from
his place of dwelling, the robber and the robbed, the dead and  the  living;
in the same way their is  difference  between  the  living  entity  and  the
Supreme Lord although the living entity is also eternal.  The  Supreme  Lord
being totally independent and the living entity being  eternally  dependent.
How is it the possible for the dependent to be  equal  to  the  independent.
The Supreme Lord resides within the heart  of  all  living  entities  giving
them life as their primary cause of existence, everyone  and  everything  is
completely dependent solely upon the Supreme Lord Krishna for their  breath,
life and very existence; yet the Supreme Lord  Krishna,  the  cause  of  all
causes is not dependent on anything.
<p>
Their is a difference between the Supreme Lord and the living  entities  and
the Supreme Lord and the material energy. There is  difference  between  one
individual living entity  from  another  and  also  between  the  individual
living entities and the material energy as well as  difference  between  the
earth and the material energy. These are the  basic  five-fold  differences.
They are all eternal and although  born  are  not  capable  of  destruction.
Therefore  eternal  are  these  five-fold  differences  and  because   these
differences were originated by the Supreme Lord  Krishna  they  are  eternal
truths and should  not  be  imagined  to  be  illusory.  Being  the  Supreme
Ultimate  Reality,  the  resplendent  Supreme  Lord  Krishna  is  immutable,
advaita incomparable in all  attributes  omnipotent.  By  knowledge  of  the
omniscient, omnipresent, blissful Supreme Lord one becomes  aware  of  being
dependent upon Him. Such are the attributes of the Supreme Lord Krishna  and
none  else.  The  Supreme  Lord  possessing  such  supreme,   transcendental
attributes as being the Supreme Lord of all does not  negate  the  existence
of any living entity. They certainly exist. If difference was the result  of
mere imagination it would have been false; but this  difference  is  clearly
perceivable by knowledge. Therefore among  the  wise,  there  is  never  any
occasion to doubt the non-dual aspect of the Supreme Lord.
<p>
In this regard all the Vedic scriptures endorse the difference  between  the
Supreme Lord and the living entities.  Otherwise  erroneous  interpretations
would be prescribed to Him and knowledge of the all will not arise.  In  the
same way, one who has only seen the silver shine in an oyster  shell  should
not conclude all knowledge about silver is  known.  By  these  examples  the
difference between the Supreme Lord and the living entities have been  given
thus here atat tvam asi meaning you are not that has been explained.
<p>
If the statement tatvamasi is considered as indicating  difference  then  it
will not contradict the previous  statement  etad  atmyamidam  sarvam  which
refers to the Supreme Lord as independent and all  the  living  entities  as
dependent upon Him and therefore not separate from Him.
<p>
Etad atyamidam refers to the  Ultimate  Consciousness  which  is  indicative
only to the Supreme Lord. It is not correct to  imagine  it  refers  to  the
living entities. It is simply similarity due  to  the  relationship  of  the
Supreme Lord as dominator and the living entities as dominated. It would  be
a sign of acute  ignorance,  knowing  that  the  Supreme  Lord  created  the
material manifestation and all living  entities  separate  from  Himself  to
imagine that the Supreme Lord and the living entities are the same.  If  the
material manifestation is to be regarded as  only  a  description  then  the
statement that from Him all this is created would not be clear. How  can  it
be possible for  the non-dual nature of the Supreme Lord  be  refuted  after
understanding the inherent difference  between  the  Supreme  Lord  and  His
creation?
<p>
At the end of every section the difference from the Supreme  Lord  has  been
enunciated and who it should be given to  is  emphasised  in  the  following
manner: to one who has stayed continuously serving  the  preceptor  for  one
year should this knowledge be given, not to one who is uninitiated.
<p>
One in knowledge understands that individual  consciousness  is  beyond  the
material manifestation.
<p>
In the spiritual worlds the Ultimate Personality, the Supreme  Lord  dwells.
Thus the knowers of the Ultimate Truth  are  realised  and  offer  perpetual
obeisance’s to the Supreme Lord Krishna  whom  they  perceive  within  their
heart of hearts as the indwelling monitor.
<p>
If it is argued that the Supreme Lord is neither distinct nor  is  He  self-
evident, nor is He averred as being non-dual with all manifestations a  mere
illusion, then the Vedic scriptures  would  not  be  logical.  The  apparent
appearances will not be superior to the  real  appearance  neither  can  the
apparent appearances have any special attributes attached to it.  The  Vedic
scriptures are eternal and not  subject  to  illusion.  Being  the  Ultimate
Truth they are  proof  in  themselves.  Thus  illusion  will  always  remain
illusion and the Ultimate Truth will always remain the Ultimate Truth.
<p>
It is not possible to substantiate that the difference between  the  Supreme
Lord and the living entities is qualified by any limitations, if  this  were
the case then that would infer that by the  acquiring  of  such  limitations
could be subject to illusion; but the Supreme Lord is never subject  in  any
way to illusion. If it is stated that the Supreme  Lord  having  many  feet,
hands and mouths are different from them  then  these  differences  will  be
defects. But the Supreme Lord is non-different from any  of  His  individual
parts and so it is not possible to make any comparisons of this nature.
<p>
Therefore the difference between the Supreme Lord and  the  living  entities
can only be established based on the authority of the Vedic scriptures.
<p>
