<p><div align=justify><p>
Here to emphasise the authority of the Vedic  scriptures  the  Supreme  Lord
Krishna uses the words na jayate meaning never takes  birth.  The  knowledge
of the Lord is not born nor does it cease to be in the literal sense of  the
words. In all situations, time and places as well as in  all  stages  it  is
never subject to modification.  Nor  is  the  knowledge  of  the  soul  ever
subject  to  destruction  and  this  is  fully  established  in  the   Vedic
scriptures. How one may ask? Due to the  attributes  like  ajah  the  unborn
referring to the Supreme Lord, sasvatah means permanent signifying  that  He
remains in His  spiritual  form  of  consciousness  and  bliss  without  any
modification, puranam means that the eternal embodied soul acquires  another
pura or body. Thus it can be understood that the soul is not ever  destroyed
even when the physical body perishes. 
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
The living entity and the Supreme Lord are both irrevocably  established  as
unborn, eternal and indestructible. The Supreme Lord possessing a  spiritual
body does not come into existence by  being  associated  with  the  material
manifestation; but is  eternally  existing  independently.  Death  correctly
comprehended is  merely  the  separation  of  the  embodied  soul  from  the
physical body leaving it lifeless. Since  for  the  Supreme  Lord  there  is
never any destruction of His form, there cannot be any connection  to  death
by Him.
<p>
The eternal soul is  also  unborn  and  indestructible,  otherwise  creation
could be considered simply a repetitive exercise going on and on  absent  of
purpose. The eternal soul is also  permanent  but  the  eternal  soul  never
exists independently; it has limited power,  limited  knowledge,  incomplete
in itself, dependent upon the transcendental energy of the Supreme Lord.  In
juxtaposition to that are the  sublime attributes of the  Supreme  Lord  who
is omnipotent, omniscient and omnipresent. These are the natural  attributes
of the 2 there is no modifications to be found in them. Therefore  the  holy
sages and rishi’s designated them both as sasvatah  or  permanent.  Thus  in
the Visnu Purana because the living entity is embodied in  countless  bodies
from the beginning of time it is known as puranah meaning ancient.
<p>
