<p><div align=justify><p>
By opposition to the indestructibility of the eternal soul  the  possibility
of such destruction in the future could be indicated;  but  by  showing  the
impossibility of the eternal soul  for  destruction  it  is  clarified  that
there is no destruction of the eternal soul in the future as  well.  How  is
it incapable of destruction? Understanding that the eternal soul  being  the
essential constitution of all living entities is immortal and all  pervading
reflecting these qualities from the Supreme Lord. The word  sthanuh  meaning
unchangeable defines the position of the eternal soul confirming  permanence
and by this all doubts about the eternality of the immortal soul  should  be
dispelled. Similarly by the  words  nitya  meaning  everlasting,  sanantanah
meaning eternally the same  and  others  these  doubts  are  also  dispelled
verifying the factual position of  the  eternal  soul  from  all  angles  of
vision. Otherwise these examples would be merely repetitive.
<p>
Having previously described the living entities by virtue of their  immortal
soul as being a reflection of  the  Supreme  Lord,  the  attributes  already
spoken but not repeated will not be considered as a defect. That is  because
the transcendental qualities of the Supreme Lord, the same  in  quality  but
minuscule in quantity is reflected in the form of the eternal  soul  without
any modification.
<p>
Statements in the Vedic scriptures such as  the  Upanisads  of  rupam  rupam
pratirupo babhuva in each and every form is His reflection  and  abhasa  eva
ca  is like a reflection confirm the Supreme Lord being  all  pervasive  and
in Brahma Sutra  this  is  also  established.  So  there  is  not  even  the
slightest contradiction of the individual living  entities  being  fragments
of the  Supreme  Lord  because  it  is  perfectly  established  by  His  all
pervasive presence due to the auspices of the  eternal  soul  which  is  the
eternal connection to the Supreme Lord Krishna bequeathed  upon  all  living
entities which are  created  from  the  natural  interaction  of  males  and
females who were both  born  from  the  natural  interaction  of  males  and
females. Being a reflection in the form of being a fragment  means  being  a
portion or a part of the whole and simply by being blessed by  the  presence
of an immortal soul we an  everlasting part of the whole  connected  to  the
Supreme Lord eternally.
<p>
Similarly words like sthanu and aikshata are also not contradictory  due  to
the Supreme Lord Krishna being the Supreme  Lord  of  all.  Both  words  are
given in the Vedic scriptures and are not because of the effect of  illusion
but due to the impossibility of being ever able  conceptualize  the  Supreme
Lord's qualities completely various Vedic scriptures  supply  the  qualities
and attributes appropriate to the knowledge that is being elucidated at  the
time. Passages referring to Him as the Supreme Lord and  passages  referring
to Him as the unmanifested brahman not contradictory  because  He  possesses
both these attributes which is feasible to  understand  because  He  is  the
primary cause and effect of all manifestations. So on  the  surface  it  may
appear that  various  statements  in  the  Vedic  scriptures  regarding  His
attributes could be construed as being contradictory but  comprehending  the
over all understanding it can be easily seen that they actually are not.
<p>
The final summation is that in the Supreme  Lord  alone  all  contradictions
are automatically resolved. In deliverance from the endless cycle  of  birth
and death which only can be bequeathed to that exalted  and  blessed  living
entity who by has  discovered  the  presence  of  the  Supreme  Lord  within
themselves as well as in every living entity born from the womb of a  female
who was also born from the womb of a female is a  living  entities  greatest
attainment factually  fulfilled  and  the  purpose  of  human  existence  is
finally achieved. This alone is what is truly meant as moksa  or  liberation
and this is actual deliverance. Because in accordance to the  words  of  the
Vedic scriptures it is seen that  the  variegated  pleasures,  the  ecstatic
happiness and the marvellous heavenly spheres gained due to the  performance
of meritorious actions disappear when that merit is eventually exhausted.
<p>
It should be emphasised that moksa or deliverance is only attainable by  the
grace of the Supreme Lord and no other way. When the  Supreme  Lord  Krishna
is worshipped and glorified how could liberation not be achieved  ?  If  the
Supreme Lord is pleased whatever could not be  possible?  So  it  should  be
understood that only by receiving the  mercy  of  the  Supreme  Lord   is  a
living entity able to be delivered from the ocean of birth and death in  the
material  existence.  In  whom  the  Supreme  Lord  has  given   everlasting
compassion is that living entity free from all self-deception of the  bodily
conception and delusions of illusion regarding the physical  body  which  at
death is simply an empty shell fit for consumption by worms and insects.  By
realising the Supreme  Lord  within  by  His  grace  one  will  be  able  to
transgress the web of this transitory existence.
<p>
If the Supreme Lord is pleased, then  verily  what  is  not  possible?  Even
artha which is wealth and  kama  which  are  desires  are  both  unnecessary
because they grant without a doubt results which are  permanent.  O  '  Lord
kindly protect us because we are burning in the fire of  material  existence
suffering from the three fold  miseries  of  old  age,  disease  and  death.
Therefore one should always seek the shelter of  serving  the  Supreme  Lord
which is the source of real happiness. When  the  Supreme  Lord  is  finally
understood to be the eternal support of all living entities, how  can  there
not be deliverance for all  who  receive  His  grace.  That  grace  is  only
possible for those whose  righteous  actions  are  determined  by  authentic
knowledge. This  is  well  known  throughout  all  the  universes  and  this
authoritative fact should be realised as a truth. One  who  factually  knows
about the Supreme Lord without any delusion is situated in wisdom.
<p>
In the Narada Purana it is stated:
<p>
Truth is truth and always will be truth. If divided into  a  hundredth  part
of a hundred million it is still truth and even if  that  hundred  millionth
part of truth is divided into  innumerable  parts  and  further  innumerable
parts are made up again of that part it still remains  truth.  Thus  is  the
ultimate  greatness of  the  Supreme  Lord  and  due  only  to  Him  is  the
greatness of Sri, Sesa,  Brahma  and  Siva.  This  is  the  reason  why  the
greatness of the heavenly denizens is spoken only due to their  relationship
with the Supreme Lord.
<p>
Among all Vedic scriptures the best is Mahabharata  and  the  best  part  of
Mahabharata hidden deep within like a treasure  chest  is  Srimad  Bhagavad-
Gita. Who else but  the  Supreme  Lord  Krishna  could  have  revealed  such
glorious and transcendental subject matters. There  is  none  equal  to  the
Supreme Lord and there will be none equal to Him in the future and  by  such
statements the effulgent glory and greatness of Mahabharata  is  established
eternally. Everything will be accomplished by  faith  in  and  knowledge  of
this truth. The Supreme  Lord,  by  whose  will  Brahma  manifested  with  a
pleasant face and Rudra manifested with an  angry  face.  There  is  nothing
equal to or superior to the Supreme Lord. This statement has no need  to  be
asserted in normal context as the Supreme Lord's position is  naturally  far
superior; but it was a reply to  a  specific  query.  In  other  cases  this
statement has been made in  exceptional  circumstances  in  regards  to  the
celestial demigods. In such situations demigods such as Agni the demigod  in
charge of fire and Indra the king  of  all  the  demigods  are  referred  to
exemplifying the Supreme Lords omnipotence with praises such as: He is  Agni
meaning as fire is universal so is He. He  is  Indra  meaning  as  Indra  is
supreme among the demigods, so  is  He.  The  supreme  brahman  meaning  the
transcendental embodiment of the Ultimate Truth.  So  this  is  the  correct
understanding and should be applied to other similar Vedic statements.
<p>
The potency of Siva and others have been described and  clarified  by  their
relationship with the Supreme Lord  in  their  respective  Puranas.  In  the
Skanda Purana it has been stated: The  difference  which  exists  between  a
tiger and a lion, between Mt. Meru and Mt. Vindhya, between the sun and  its
reflection,  the  same  difference  exists  between  Siva  and  Indra.   The
difference which exists between a lion and an elephant in the forest,  which
exists between the sun and the moon in the sky, that  which  exists  between
the rivers Ganga and Yamuna, the same difference exists between  Brahma  and
Siva. The difference  which  exists  between  the  waters  at  the  time  of
dissolution and the tiny drops of water forming mist in  the  casual  ocean,
that  which  exists  between  the  spark  and  the  fire  at  the  time   of
conflagration, that same difference is between  Visnu  and  Siva.  Eternally
omnipotent the Supreme Lord is incomparable to all others; but in  order  to
indicate Siva's power and potency as being connected  to  the  Supreme  Lord
examples of his praise such as: none  is  equal  or  superior  to,  existing
everywhere at every moment and that he alone are adored are given.
<p>
In the Padma Purana in the episode relating  to  Siva  regarding  Markandeya
declining to be blessed with moksa or liberation in the future, it is  cited
that liberation only from the Supreme Lord is appropriate  and  commendable.
He commented that Siva can grant the pleasures to be enjoyed by the  senses;
but liberation in the material existence from the cycle of birth  and  death
can only be granted  by the Surpreme Lord Krishna.
<p>
It should be  known  that  the  Vedic  scriptures  must  be  interpreted  in
conjunction  with  the  authentic  historical  accounts  found  within   the
Mahabharata. In this way there will be no  contradiction.  This  is  a  very
crucial point to comprehend and knowledge of the Mahabharata  is  essential;
otherwise doubt will arise about the actual status of Siva,  Indra  and  the
rest. The distinctive and  extraordinary  nature  of  the  Supreme  Lord  is
clearly revealed. Thus the eternal supremacy of the Supreme Lord Krishna  is
the summation of all the Vedic scriptures.
<p>
Even by this universally established  fact,  the  truth  about  the  Supreme
Lord's  omnipotence  is  established  there  being  no  possibility  in  any
circumstance  to  ever  usurp  this.  For  facts   which   are   established
conclusively there is no necessity for additional  evidence.  Since  diverse
qualities are common in  various  things,  perceiving  these  qualities  are
possessed by others one should not conclude that  they  are  absent  in  the
Supreme Lord. So in  the  establishment  of  a  premise  if  assistance   of
another premise is required to support  it  then  there  is  possibility  of
imperfection by this system.
<p>
The Supreme Lord Krishna  is  confirmed  in  the  Vedic  scriptures  as  the
supreme controller without purposeful intent because it is a fact.  This  is
the summation of all the Vedic literatures.  All  the  Vedas  speak  of  the
Supreme  Lord  Krishna  or  His  sastrically   authorised   expansions   and
incarnations as the goal of all the Vedas. This is not a  contradiction  but
it is ordained  by  the  Supreme  Lord  Himself  and  being  eternal  it  is
eternally  established  like  actions  and  time.  Therefore   it   can   be
ascertained that the Vedas exist without any secondary  purpose  solely  out
of adoration for the Supreme Lord and by this it is  conclusively  confirmed
that devotion to the Supreme Lord is the ultimate goal of existence.
<p>
For any conceptions of a  formless  intangible  Supreme  Lord,  when  wisdom
arises, it itself is the form and tangibility for this formlessness  and  is
endowed with its own unfathomable,  inalienable  power  of  independence  as
well being definitely not a product of illusion.
<p>
From the point of view of action: Austerity in the heart  and  the  physical
body is itself learning and action is verily the form itself. Therefore  all
is not like an illusion. In view of statements in  the  Vedas  referring  to
the Supreme Lord such as: You are that wealth and other similar  expressions
denoting attributes it is not correct to categorise  them  as  illusion.  By
one possessing unlimited wisdom, unlimited attributes  and  unlimited  forms
Brahma the manager of the universe was created. He was endowed with  science
and power from the source of unlimited potencies. Thus the Supreme  Lord  is
known by  His  potencies  as  well  as  the  possessors  upon  whom  He  has
bequeathed his potency.
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
The Supreme Lord Krishna is stating that just as He  is  indestructible  the
eternal soul within the living entities born from the womb of a female  that
was born from the womb of  a  female.  The  eternal  soul  being  sub-atomic
meaning even smaller than an atom is  under  the  complete  control  of  the
Supreme Lord Krishna being qualitatively the same but quantitatively but  an
infinitesimal spark. Since the Supreme Lord Krishna is omnipresent  He  does
not move therefore He is the basis of all existence.  This  existence  never
ceasing to exist is known as immovable and  because He is identified by  the
primal sound Om He is eternally resonating and perennial.
<p>
The Visnu Purana states that the immortal soul is eternally  existing  under
the control of the Supreme Lord Krishna  and  by  being  under  His  control
verily makes the living entity immovable as well. Full of the attributes  of
the inviolable injunctions of the Vedas the eternal soul is know as  sanatan
or perennial. The eternal soul is stated as indivisible to show that  as  it
can not be divided in any  way  it  also  can  not  be  separated  from  the
complete control of the Supreme Lord Krishna in any way. For  one  whom  the
eternal  soul  has  been  realised  it  is  indescribable  because   it   is
inconceivable and one who understands  the  Supreme  Lord  Krishna  on  this
platform has all  their  miseries  mitigated.  Therefore  the  Supreme  Lord
Krishna is saying to Arjuna that  he  need  not  lament  because  He  always
redeems them.
<p>
The Supreme Lord Krishna states earlier in chapter 2  beginning  with  verse
12 : na tu evaham jatu nasam meaning never was there a time when He did  not
exist nor did Arjuna not exist confirming the eternal position of  both  the
Supreme Lord and the living entity. By the use of the word dehinah in  verse
13 meaning the embodied and dehantara meaning the transference  into  bodies
as well as in verse  18  the  word  saririnah  meaning  the  embodied  souls
reveals the inherent  qualities  of  the  individual  consciousness  of  the
living entities subject to the state of transmigration from  body  to  body.
Words in verse 17 such as  avinasa  imperishable,  yena  sarvam  idam  tatam
meaning  by  whom  the  body  is  pervaded,  verse   18   anasinah   meaning
indestructible and aprameyasya meaning immeasurable, in verse 20 na  mriyate
never dies, in verse 21 avinasinam indestructible and avyayam immutable  and
in  verse  25  avyakto  yam  acintyo  yam  avikaryo   yam   ucyate   meaning
imperceptible, inconceivable, immutable and the like are all the  attributes
of the Ultimate Consciousness.
<p>
The living entities do not pervade everywhere, nor  are  they  inconceivable
neither  are  they  eternally   indestructible   or   incomprehensible   and
unmodifiable, nor once born do they  cease  to  be  born  again  in  another
physical body. Because the  Supreme  Lord  Krishna  is  one-hundred  percent
completely  spiritual    there   is  no  question  of  any   separation   or
distinction between  His internal  existence  and  His  external  appearance
which although seemingly manifests as a product of this  material  existence
is factually  transcendental to the  material  existence  in  all  respects,
thus the word avinasi is only applicable to Him.
<p>
By whom  the demigods are born but whom remains independent  from  them,  to
whom all others are subservient  to;  the  Supreme  Lord  Krishna  alone  is
capable  of  revealing  the  eternal   goals  of  all  living  entities  and
establishing what is eternal righteousness. Therefore His  glorification  is
a meritorious act. Similarly the  word  yuddha  meaning  the  battle  is  an
example of this in this instance by following His instructions.
<p>
For all living entities in the material existence the physical  body  has  a
beginning and an end  this  is  verifiable  because  the  physical  body  is
material subject to the process of birth  and  death.  The  living  entities
physical bodies being incapable of existing  independent  from  the  eternal
soul are not capable of slaying another eternal soul  or  having  their  own
eternal soul slain by another. Therefore it is not sagacious to assume  that
anyone can kill or be killed.
<p>
The  Supreme  Lord  Krishna  possessing   a   completely   spiritual   body,
transcendental to the material existence has not the  propensity  for  death
to separate His spirtual self from His spiritual body because they are  both
not of  material  nature.  The  Supreme  Lord  Krishna  is  never  born,  He
manifests Himself from the spiritual world into the  material  existence  by
His own potency according to His own  desire.  Therefore  the  Supreme  Lord
Krishna being exclusively independent  is  independently  the  creating  and
terminating cause of existence for all living entities.
<p>
Although the physical bodies of all living entities are   destroyed  by  the
medium of time the  essential  nature  of  all  living  entities  being  the
eternal soul is never destroyed. Thus to that extent the eternality  of  the
living entity is insured by the auspices  of  the  eternal  soul.  Therefore
when  one   knows  the  essential  nature  of  the  eternal  soul  as  being
indestructible and the Supreme Lord as  being  the  independent  creator  of
all, how can one think of themselves as slaying or being slain by anyone?
<p>
Like clothes which become worn and old in time, even so  the  physical  body
becomes worn and old in time. Perceiving oneself dependent in  all  respects
in all  circumstances,  the  living  entities  realise  that  they  are  not
independent as is in the case of the omnipotent Supreme Lord Krishna.
<p>
