<p><div align=justify><p>
The Supreme Lord is verily the manifestation of the inconceivable Himself.
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
It might be questioned that if the Supreme Lord is all pervading why  is  He
not visible? The reason  is because He is inconceivable. It may  be  further
queried how does He appear so endowed? Because of  His  power  of  remaining
unthinkable; but this power does not come from any  outside  source  but  is
contained solely within Himself. Whatever forms He exhibits in all these  He
alone manifests fully. To emphasise words like enam and ayam indicating  the
eternal soul are used in different contexts.  In  the  case  of  the  living
entities it is to show that their eternal soul has  qualitatively  the  same
essence   and   attributes   as   the   Supreme   Lord   but   infinitesimal
quantitatively. This is further confirmed in various Vedic scriptures.
<p>
In the Paingi Struti it is stated:
<p>
The physical body, pleasures and fragrances,  light  of  wisdom,  impeccable
bravery; these things reflect the best  of  all  wisdom,  the  best  of  all
pleasures and bravery which find their source within  the  Ultimate  Supreme
Personality the Supreme Lord Krishna.
<p>
In the Parama Sruti it is stated:
<p>
The Supreme Lord Krishna is known to be both possessing a  body  and  devoid
of body. This is because He possesses a spiritual  transcendental  body  but
he is not possessing a physical body. Because His body  is  not  constituted
from the elements of material nature it is said to  be  a-dehah.  The  head,
the feet, the arms and other parts of this  spiritual,  transcendental  body
are made up of the Supreme Lord  Himself.  There  exists  nothing  which  is
distinctive from this spiritual, transcendental nature which can  be  called
His body therefore He is called a-dehah without  body.  He  Himself  is  His
form and this spiritual, transcendental form  is eternally  existing  beyond
the scope of material existence.
<p>
Other than the Supreme Lord Krishna, none else is  competent  to  comprehend
this form. There is never for the Supreme Lord the  creation  or  separation
or destruction of His spiritual, transcendental body. He and  His  body  are
one and the same spiritual, transcendental essence. All of  His  beauty  and
all of  His  wonderful  and  phenomenal  attributes  are  recorded  only  to
understand  that  He  is  the  source,  the  original  repository   of   all
attributes. The awareness that I am this  physical  body  is  an  experience
common to all living entities. Even though  such  a  distinct  awareness  is
normal it is perceived as special. Even though it is special, one  does  not
perceive it as being separate from one's own  individual  consciousness.  So
how can there ever be a manifestation of the resplendent  Supreme  Lord  for
one who cannot  even  first  perceive  their  own  individual  consciousness
within themselves?
<p>
Although attributes may which appear contradictory in normal, mundane  human
behaviour, it should be understood without a doubt that no such  discrepancy
ever exists in regard  to  the  Supreme  Lord  when  spoken  of  in  various
scriptures. Discrepancies imagined during reflection or  speculated  due  to
non-reflection are all a product of  ignorance.  They  do  not  exist  as  a
reality. These attributes are self revealed.
<p>
In the Suparna  section of the Rig Veda it is stated:
<p>
The one only,  without  a  second,  before  which  there  was  nothing  else
whatsoever. Death was enveloped by death. Nothing  else  was  visible.  Like
the waters which emanate from the mountains flow  down  in  various  rivers,
whoever sees the attributes of the Supreme Lord in various manifested  forms
loses merit. Whoever sees even the slightest difference in the  descents  of
the Supreme Lord Krishna's multifarious and variegated incarnations such  as
Narasingha, Kurma and others from His attributes  and  actions  and  also  a
difference in these manifestations  will  go  to  the  world  of  nescience.
Therefore living entities who desire to learn about the Supreme Lord  should
start by knowing Him as indivisible.
<p>
Even if there appears to be some special difference it should be  understood
to be so due to time and circumstance. For example there  is  no  difference
between His special attributes and His special strength. There  is  as  well
no factual difference whatsoever between any special attribute  and  any  of
His special incarnation and His supreme distinctive and indivisible  aspect.
There is complete and absolute continuity and similarity in all respects  in
His original two armed form as the Supreme  Lord  Krishna  and  all  of  His
unlimited incarnations and expansions.
<p>
There are six categories of  incarnations of the Supreme Lord  Krishna.  The
Four  Kumaras,  Hamsa,  Varaha,  Narada,   Nara-Narayana,   Kapila,   Yagna,
Dattatreya,  Hayagriva,  Prsnigarbha,   Rsabha,   Prithu,   Matsya,   Kurma,
Dhanvantari, Mohini, Narasimha, Vamana, Parasurama, Vyasa,  Rama,  Balarama,
Buddha and Kalki  are known as  Lila Avatars. The  three  manifestations  of
Visnu are known as  Purusa Avataras of the Supreme Lord Krishna. Brahma  and
Shiva are known as Guna Avatars, incarnations such as  Hari  and  Ajita  are
known as Manvantara Avatars, incarnations such as Anantadeva and Sesha  Naga
are known as Saktyavesa Avatars  and  incarnations  such  as  Sukla,  Rakta,
Shyama and Pita  are known as Yuga Avatars.
<p>
In the Varaha Purana it is stated:
<p>
All these avatars are bonafide incarnations of the Supreme Lord Krishna  and
then there are still all of His numerous,  authorised   expansions  and  His
unlimited associates who descend to a material world with Him to  assist  in
His pastimes. Those who have been blessed to know the Supreme Lord  in  this
manner, onto them is the love of the Supreme Lord  Krishna  bestowed.  Those
who think otherwise due to misguided false conceptions, lack of  opportunity
for learning the Ultimate Truth or the inherent  limitations  of  their  own
mind will fall permanently into the worlds of nescience.
<p>
