<p><div align=justify><p>
The wisdom of sankhya being the ability to  understand  the  distinction  of
spirit from matter leads to the realisation of the eternal soul  and  is  in
essence the sankhya philosophy has been given in smriti. The yoga method  of
the individual consciousness  perceiving  and  then  subsequently  attaining
communion with the Ultimate Consciousness and the accompanying  state  which
manifests has been  revealed  in  the  Bhagavad  Purana.  Other  than  these
nothing else has been referred to as the sankhya philosophy or  the  science
of yoga ; but in other contexts the word karma yoga has been used and  along
with Pancaratra has been named as a method for liberation.
<p>
In the Vedic  scriptures  there  is  always  a  holistic  understanding  and
comprehensive appreciation present, thus there is  no  contradiction  unless
one is in possession of faulty perceptions. It is sometimes  seen  that  due
to partial understanding an incorrect interpretation  is  made  due  to  not
acquiring  sufficient   knowledge.  In  the  Citra  Shikhandi   Sastra   the
similarity between Pancaratra and the Vedas has been well  documented.  Also
in all cases the sankhya philosophy  and  the  science  of  yoga  have  been
similarly described as methods for liberation from the  material  existence.
This is quite proper because  spiritual  knowledge  is  the  only  means  of
salvation and various methods have been delineated in the  Vedic  scriptures
regarding this. If attainment of salvation can become known  by  any  method
than that in itself is spiritual knowledge.  By  whatever  way  the  sankhya
system comes to be known that is the distinction of spirit  from  matter  by
that way it has been explained.
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
Equal importance is also given to both jnana knowledge and sankhya. By  yoga
both these 2 become united; therefore yoga is the means.  Seekers  of  truth
have determined that yoga is the precursor to sankhya as given in the  Sabda
Nirnaya.
<p>
Brahma Tarka  is  a  dialectical  method  propounded  by  Visnu  incarnation
Kapiladeva in his discourse to Devahuti on the original  sankhya  philosophy
which is fully theist in  the  Bhagavat  Purana.  The  nyaya  philosophy  of
Gautama, the vaisesika  philosophy  of  Kanada  and  the  imitation  sankhya
philosophy which is  athiestic  of  Kapila  Muni  are  all  but  dialectical
arguments  not  dialectical  methods  for  attaining  the  Ultimate   Truth.
Mayavadi  and Pasupata  doctrines  are  considered  profane.  The  mimamsaka
philosophy of Jaimini is  threefold  concerning  rituals,  brahman  and  the
Supreme  Lord.  The  original  sankhya  philosophy  of  Kapiladeva  and  the
mimamsaka of Jaimini are both dialectical methods for  the  Ultimate  Truth.
The perfect wisdom of the Vedic scriptures is the only  complete  source  of
spiritual knowledge. Those who have  realised  this  eternal  truth  do  not
follow anything else. Other philosophies such as tantra or even the  astanga
yoga system of Pantanjali should not be followed  according  to  the  Narada
Purana.
<p>
The atheist sankhya philosophy as has been stated earlier is  a  dialectical
argument but here in Bhagavad-Gita it is being  explained  in  its  original
theistic ontology as a dialectical method. The original  sankhya  philosophy
as well as  the  astanga  yoga  system  both  declare  that  killing  causes
undesirable reactions.
<p>
In the Bhagavad-Gita war is recommended as desirable  for  upholding  dharma
or righteousness and in  this  way  according  to  prescribed  duties  of  a
ksatriya is a means for salvation when it is said karma bandham  prahasyasi.
So it should be understood in this light and there should be no  discrepancy
between what has been intended in the original  sankhya  philosophy  or  the
astanga yoga system and  what has been related in Bhagavad-Gita as there  is
factually no contradiction.
<p>
