<p><div align=justify><p>
In the Agni Purana it is stated:
<p>
That pseudo devotion, inconsistant devotion and defective  devotion  due  to
insufficient knowledge or deviation from the Vedic injunctions  renders  any
chance for reciprocation with the Supreme Lord as futile and in vain.
<p>
Keeping in mind the preceding words it can be seen  that  even  without  any
intention whatsoever of propitiating the Supreme Lord;  by  the  performance
of righteous actions without any desire for reward or  recognition,  whether
complete or incomplete  righteousness  is  most  certainly  accrued  to  the
followers of the Supreme Lord regardless. This eternal truth  was  initiated
in the Satya Yuga for the benefit of the worlds  in  the  Vedic  scriptures.
Except by the mercy of the Supreme Lord pleasure neither a drop of rain  may
fall; nor a blade of  grass  may  grow.  A  spiritually  intelligent  living
entity should always be a humble servant of the transcendental Supreme  Lord
Krishna serving Him with loving  devotion  without  any  desires.  A  living
entity reading this material should understand it  completely  should  never
have any reservation that there is anything equal to or   superior  to  Him.
One should understand that according to revealed  scriptures  everything  in
existence  has  been  created  by  Him  and  everything  in   existence   is
subordinate to Him. Accordingly  even  the  gradation  of  His  eternal  and
phenomenal incarnations and expansions is determined. These  eternal  truths
initiated  by   the   Supreme   Lord   Himself   are   fruitful   in   Treta
Yuga, especially fruitful in Dvarapa Yuga and most  especially  fruitful  in
kali yaga. Therefore it should be clearly understood that  the  blessing  of
salvation can only be bestowed upon those who by  spiritual  knowledge  have
factually attained actual communion with the Supreme Lord Krishna.
<p>
The Vedic scriptures are eternal and are instruments of superior  knowledge.
Righteousness or dharma is also superior and of much more  import  than  the
propitiation of various demigods. Even better than  all  is  having  factual
knowledge of the Supreme Lord is the best of  all  attributes.  Whatever  is
offerred at the summation of yagna, that verily is  for  the  Supreme  Lord.
Those knowers of  the  Vedas  return  to  earth  again  after  enjoying  the
celestial spheres and again performing meritorious service  to  the  Supreme
Lord they again go to the celestial spheres. Awareness  of  the  status  and
gradation  of  the  various  demigods  and  performing  actions  which   are
beneficial  to  them  brings  with  it  similar  results  in  the   material
existence. However without having comprehensive knowledge according  to  the
Vedic scriptures of the paramount position of the Supreme Lord  Krishna,  as
the Supreme Lord over all there is, all ones prayers,  penance  and  longing
for heavenly realms will be in vain; for  without  relinquishing  attachment
to the senses and without constant remembrance of the Supreme  Lord  Krishna
even knowledge of the Vedas is in vain. But still due to having  some  piety
they gradually are redeemed by the Supreme Lord at the end  when  they  have
realised that surrendering all actions unto the Supreme  Lord  according  to
the  Vedic  injunctions  after  living  many  lives  performing  meritorious
actions.
<p>
One who has not realised the Supreme Lord Krishna's paramount position  over
all there is, even if they perform all the rituals  enjoined  in  the  Vedas
cannot be spoken of as a  real  knower  of  Vedanta.  The  word  vada  means
speech. One who speaks about the Supreme Lord Krishna who  is  the  Ultimate
goal of the Vedas without factually understanding His  Supreme  position  is
merely theoretical. One should not be engrossed in debative arguments  about
the Vedas with living entities  of  no  piety  or  to  those  who  purposely
perform  sinful  activities  or  to  those  who  are   incorrigible.   These
unfortunate living entities descend to the worlds of obscurity and  darkness
perpetually and which are without a beginning  and  an  end.  In  the  Vedic
scriptures these worlds are known as vavra meaning from whence there  is  no
return and were dwell living entities languishing in nescience.
<p>
