<p><div align=justify><p>
The opinions of those who  are  not  resolute  are  contrary  to  the  Vedic
scriptures;  but  the  summations  of  those  who  are  resolute  possessing
spiritual intelligence are never contrary to the  Vedic  scriptures.  Arjuna
may query why the Supreme Lord speaks about things  providing  pleasures  of
heaven, this is clarified by the Supreme Lord in this  verse.  In  verse  42
beginning yam to the word taya in verse forty-four  it  can  be  ascertained
that if salvation is the fruit then any heavenly pleasures  are  merely  the
flowers.
<p>
Those who revel only in the words of the Vedas are known as  Vedavad  ratah.
They speak only of revelling in the pleasures derived  from  actions.  Those
who speak about the Vedas  in  expectation  of  fruits  are  said  to  revel
therein and  thus  they  are  motivated  by  desire.  The  essence  and  the
objective of the Vedic scriptures is knowledge of  the  Ultimate,  which  is
the Supreme Lord, who is very pleased by those who are devoted to  Him.  The
instructions and injunctions within the Vedic scriptures should be known  to
be applicable solely to the Supreme Lord and no other. It is  the  knowledge
of the Supreme Lord that is to be sought and understood. This is what is  to
be achieved by all living entities  to  make  their  life  in  the  material
existence successful.
<p>
In reference to those pursuing the goals of opulence  and  pleasure  and  in
reference to the means of acquiring  those  fruits  thereof,  these  vedavad
ratahs declare that  this  is  knowledge  of  Vedanta.   For  these  persons
spiritual intelligence and comprehensive discrimination  does  not  manifest
itself in the  form  of  an  equinanimous  intellect.  Only  those  in  whom
spiritual intelligence has awakened  have  comprehensive  knowledge  of  the
Supreme Lord and the total satisfaction of mind and senses that  accompanies
it. Verily this  is  the  means  for  salvation.  It  is  also  specifically
mentioned in the Srimad Bhagavatam known also as the Bhagavat Purana.
<p>
Not for these vedavad ratahs  is  the  realisation  of  the  Ultimate  Truth
spoken of in the Vedas in all their entirety. For whom realisation does  not
dawn that the empirical world is similar to  the  perception  of  the  world
seen  in  the  dream  state?  In  whom  then  does  exist  this   irresolute
intelligence? In those who listen to the words of  those  without  spiritual
intelligence? When one's consciousness is abducted  by  speculative  schemes
stemming from fruitive desires it is not possible for  satisfaction  of  the
mind to manifest.
<p>
Factually as things are, similar is the  spiritual  intelligence.  Knowledge
which is  distorted,  similarly  is  that  satisfaction  derived  from  such
knowledge distorted. Spiritual conceptions do not arise in minds  which  are
influenced  by  distorted  knowledge.  In  these  minds  only   a   material
conception of heaven and heavenly pleasures can be somewhat envisioned;  but
not the understanding that the Supreme Lord is actually  the  controller  of
all the worlds and the bequeather of all blessings and that only by  serving
Him, by His grace and only by His  grace  can  all  living  entities  attain
salvation. Those  living entities who adhere to  the  Vedic  scriptures  for
the  purpose  of  enjoying  material  pleasures  and  acquiring  wealth  and
opulence,  perform  repeated  acts  of  ritualistic  sacrifice  which  while
bestowing their material rewards in future lifetimes become the cause of  an
endless repetition of birth and death in the material existence.
<p>
When the minds of those living entities not prescribed to the Vedic  culture
become deluded by the words of evil minded living entities who  speak  words
contrary to the Vedic scriptures it becomes impossible for them  to  receive
any spiritual knowledge  which  would  be  beneficial  for  their  spiritual
development.
<p>
In the Atharvana scripture it is stated:
<p>
The living entities who being are influenced by such  words,  doctrines  and
philosophies which are contrary to the Vedic scriptures, consider  that  the
pursuance and fulfilment of desired objects  is  the  purpose  of  life  and
nothing else is superior to  this,  are  most  certainly  deluded.  Enjoying
whatever pleasures they have managed to manipulate for themselves  they  are
repeatedly born again and again cast down into  the  material  existence  or
depending upon the method of how they acquired their material opulence  even
hurled down to be born in animal species or in the hellish worlds.
<p>
One should therefore not become a victim and  become  prey  to  those  being
heretic or devious, who think and act contrary to  the  spiritual  knowledge
of the Vedic scriptures which are revealed in the best interest and  highest
good of every living entities in all of material existence.
<p>
Those living entities who are  unable  to  understand  the  reality  of  the
Supreme Lord Krishna's unimpeachable position and thus unaware  cannot  have
the realisation of Him as the Supreme Ultimate controller of all the  worlds
both spiritual and material. Even if they be sincere,  receptive,  qualified
and noble beings; without receiving  bonafide  instruction  from  the  Vedic
scriptures from one in the authorised process of  disciplic  succession  one
is devoid of spiritual intelligence  returning  endlessly  again  and  again
into a physical form in  the  material  existence.   But  for  those  living
entities who are  able  to  understand  the  reality  of  the  Supreme  Lord
Krishna's  unparalleled  position  and  realise  that  He  is  the  ultimate
controller of all the worlds both spiritual and material they are never  put
into jeopardy and even if they accrued some demerits and had to accept  some
karma which are reactions to previous actions, this karma  would  definitely
all be nullified within the lifetime as these living entities  of  spiritual
intelligence receive the special blessings of the Lord.
<p>
Those living  entities  who  perform  comprehensive  sacrificial  activities
prescribed by one in the authorised line of  disciplic  succession  for  the
satisfaction of the Supreme Lord Krishna; but who are in reality opposed  to
His supremacy; even if they have not acquired any  demerits,  even  if  they
have satisfied their preceptor with gifts, even  if  they  have  manipulated
themselves to attain some fleeting pleasures in the heavenly  realms;  still
when whatever merit they have acquired is exhausted  they  will   sink  back
down into worlds of darkness. Others who  remain  inimical  to  the  Supreme
Lord Krishna and who are inimical to the  spiritual  knowledge  revealed  in
the Vedic scriptures go directly to the worlds of darkness at the  death  of
their physical body without enjoying  any of the heavenly realms.
<p>
