<p><div align=justify><p>
Up until this verse  the  intelligence  of  yoga  which  is  the  individual
consciousness attaining communion with the Ultimate consciousness and  other
matters regarding the three modes  of  material  existence  being  goodness,
passion and ignorance has been discussed.  The  Vedic  scriptures  give  the
outward appearance of having as their purpose in relating how  those  living
entities in goodness, passion and ignorance can achieve   the  joys  of  the
heavenly  spheres.  But  the  Vedic  scriptures  also  contain  confidential
meanings as well and thus it has been instructed  by  Lord  Krishna  not  to
accept only the external form of the Vedic  scriptures;  but  to  understand
the Vedic scriptures by the light of the confidential meanings.
<p>
It is also declared  that  unauthorised  interpretations  by  those  outside
disciplic succession within the Vedic culture  and  of  course  to  all  the
unqualified interpretations by those who are not even attempting  to  follow
the Vedic culture must bring about doubts and confusion even if they do  not
deny  the  truth  because  although  they  may  possess  adequate   academic
intelligence they are not properly situated in spiritual intelligence.
<p>
In all the  Vedic  scriptures  which  include  the  Ramayana,  the  Puranas,
Upanisads  and  Mahabharata,  the  Supreme  Lord  Krishna  and  His   direct
expansions and incarnations are continuously  eulogised  in  the  beginning,
middle and end. All the Vedic scriptures speak of His form.
<p>
All  of  the  Vedic  scriptures  and  their  revelations,   the   historical
activities of the noble and the knowledge revealed regarding the   soul  are
all based on dharma or eternal  righteousness.  What  the  Vedic  scriptures
speak as dharma is righteouness and whatever is  contrary  to  righteousness
is spoken of as adharma. Thus in the Vedic scriptures the supremacy  of  the
Supreme Lord Krishna as ever residing  within  the  heart  of  every  living
entity is declared and anything in harmony with this understanding in  known
as dharma or righteousness and anything contrary to  this  understanding  is
known as adharma or unrighteousness.
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
The Vedic scriptures are  known  for  speaking  about  the  three  modes  of
material existence being the qualities of goodness,  passion  and  ignorance
because they give instructions about ameliorating the effect of these  three
modes of material existence. Taking full protection of the Vedic  scriptures
those of spiritual intelligence free themselves  from  the  three  modes  of
material existence and become fully devoted to  the  Supreme  Lord  Krishna.
Because all of the qualities and attributes and activities  of  the  Supreme
Lord Krishna are in themselves the Ultimate Truth and  also  because  he  is
situated in the heart of every living entity as the  Ultimate  Consciousness
in the soul; meditating on Him incessantly situates one unceasingly  in  the
Ultimate Truth. The Supreme Lord is within every living entity,  recognising
this eternal truth is spiritual intelligence and  is  understood  to  be  an
eternal principle of existence. This clearly elucidates  that  any  idea  or
conception  of  being  the  same,  non-different  or   one   with   him   is
categorically negated because it is not possible for  anyone  to  be  within
the  heart  of  every  living  entity;  so  the  Supreme  Lord  simultaneous
seperatness and oneness can thus be correctly comprehended.
<p>
When Lord Krishna speaks about being free from gain  and  preservation  this
does not mean to deny the things one  needs  to  survive  and  flourish  but
relates only to having desires for acquisition of possessions; or  else  one
would be forced to conclude that such instructions  such  as  arise  and  be
equipoised would have no relevance.
<p>
Since the injunctions of Vedic scriptures are the means of ameliorating  the
three modes of material existence, the Vedic scriptures are often spoken  of
as being the objective of the theses three modes.
<p>
Taking refuge in the Vedic scriptures a living  entity  can  be  emancipated
from the material existence  and  gains  the  heavenly  planets  but  taking
refuge solely in the Supreme Lord Krishna one attains  the  spiritual  world
and is thus far  superior.  This living entity possessing noble  attributes,
being ever in goodness, illuminated in the self the  soul  becomes  an  ever
source of illumination. Continuous remembrance of the Supreme  Lord  Krishna
is ever present within. The full  acceptance  of  the  Supreme  Lord  verily
within ones own-self effectively dissolves any conception of being  one  and
the same with the Supreme Lord. This means that one should not only  abstain
from undertaking any action contrary to realisation of  the  Ultimate  Truth
but also one should also refrain from even having any desire for any  action
which would be contrary to realising the Ultimate Truth.
<p>
