<p><div align=justify><p>
Therefore  the  rewards  available  to  those   who   act   with   spiritual
intelligence are not  accessible  to  those  who  are  seekers  of  fruitive
desires. But even still there is some  similarity,  therefore  Lord  Krishna
states in this verse that all the purposes which can be served by a well  of
water are easily served by a large reservoir of water as well. So  similarly
whatever rewards are given in the Vedic scriptures are easily  available  to
one established in spiritual intelligence of brahman or the  Ultimate  Truth
because in such  a  state  of  consciousness  all  benefits  are  inclusive.
Therefore one who knows the science of brahman is known as a  brahmana.  The
word vijanatah meaning one who is complete in knowledge receives the  reward
of knowing the Ultimate Truth.
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
Being the source of all creation without the assistance  of  anything  else,
complete in all attributes,  the  Supreme  Lord  Krishna  is  known  as  the
reservoir or shelter of all. Reservoir can also mean body of  water  and  at
the time of universal dissolution the Supreme Lord assumes the  very  nature
of water on all sides enveloping all.
<p>
Whatever benefit is  there  by  the  Supreme  Lord  being  pleased  with  an
aspirant, the same benefit is available to one who is knowledgeable  of  the
Vedic scriptures; yet all the meanings of the  Vedic  scriptures  have  been
understood by one who has realised devotion to the Supreme Lord Krishna.  By
such enlightened understanding,  the  Supreme  Lord,  who  is  the  Ultimate
dispenser of all rewards becomes pleased.
<p>
During the course of universal dissolution whatever rewards are ordained  by
the Supreme Lord Krishna, who is full of all  attributes,  independent  from
any support and transcendental to time; the same fruits  are  available  for
one who has knowledge of the confidential meanings in the Vedic scriptures.
<p>
At the time of universal dissolution nothing else  exists  in  the  material
worlds excepting the Supreme Lord. Those who  by  dint  of  their  spiritual
intelligence who have become self-realised and have  discovered  their  soul
will not be without shelter being  under  the  complete  protection  of  the
Supreme Lord. These delivered souls will not be subject to the  vagaries  of
time but insulated by the transcendental energy of the Supreme Lord will  be
delivered to the spiritual worlds.
<p>
Without  the  essential  assistance  of   His   primal   breath   which   is
indispensable and is  originating  from  His  inherent  impulse  that  alone
existed when nothing else other than Him existed. Darkness was enveloped  by
darkness and in the beginning all  was  enveloped  by  water  on  all  sides
enveloping all.
<p>
In the beginning of creation water alone existed itself  solely  as  impulse
and within this impulse generated by the Supreme Lord Himself,  the  Supreme
Lord reclined in  all  His  undivided  oneness  as  revealed  in  the  Vedic
scriptures.
<p>
