<p><div align=justify><p>
An  embodied  soul  controlled  by  mundane  desires  is  considered  to  be
reprehensible. Even the desire for heavenly enjoyments are to be shunned  as
they have the taint of fruitiveness as well. Therefore for those  possessing
spiritual  intelligence,  motivation  for  the  desire  of  reward  is   not
advisable. Arjuna is certainly spiritually intelligent and being the son  of
Indra the ruler of the demigods he  certainly  has  sufficient  adhikari  or
qualities. Only for the purpose of giving His unequivocal  instructions  for
posterity has the Supreme Lord Krishna  utilised  him  to  benefit  all  the
worlds.
<p>
Only those actions prompted by desire for  reward  are  prohibited.  Because
all rewards are factually independently ordained by the Supreme Lord  it  is
not correct to imagine that any reward which one receives  is  due  only  to
ones own efforts. Similarly the desire for the rewards of  fruitive  rewards
is also provided without any aspiration for  such.  Therefore  even  by  not
performing any actions an opposite result may occur and it can be seen  that
rewards are available neither through wisdom  nor  through  desire.  So  one
spiritually situated performs actions unattached to reward. Verily  such  is
the way of action. Neither by accepting desires nor by rejecting desires  is
wisdom  gained.
<p>
Desire is the anticipation of a  reward,  action  motivated  by  desire  for
reward makes an action fruitive and therefore  binding.  Even  so,  one  who
desires engages in the performance of austerities and penance as a means  of
sacrificing these desires. One should not perform  penance  and  austerities
with the hope of obtaining reward otherwise  these  activities  also  become
frutive as well. Actions performed without desire as a matter  of  duty  are
full of wisdom. Therefore the wise are not  bound  by  desire  for  rewards.
This is why the Supreme Lord Krishna states the words ma te  meaning  never.
Never be attached to the fruits of actions. Any  desires  which  appear  are
ordained according to the will of the Supreme Lord. Those that  receive  the
causeless mercy of the Supreme Lord Krishna are the devotees of the  Supreme
Lord  and  by  His  grace  they  are  benedicted  by  the  desire   only  to
exclusively serve  Him.  They  have  no  desire  for  even  liberation  from
material existence if it  is  to  be  separated  from  Him.  When  they  are
requested to ask for any desire to  be  granted  their  only  desire  is  to
remain in service to Him birth after birth, lifetime after lifetime.  It  is
seen and realised that by possessing the desire to serve  the  Supreme  Lord
Krishna in devotion ones love for Him automatically increases. So from  this
it can be understood that those who are  imbued  with  true  wisdom  perform
exclusive devotional service unto the Supreme Lord Krishna.
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
Actions alone are all that living entities  are  entitled  to.  The  results
however are only within the power of the Supreme Lord Krishna  to  give.  So
it is apparent that one who is governed by the desire for  fruitive  results
is not properly situated and  have  subconsciously  desired  the  impossible
delusion of usurping  the Supreme  Lords  infallible  position.  One  should
understand that it is  fallacious  to  believe  that  one  is  the  ultimate
controller of their own destiny because all results are ultimately  ordained
by the Supreme Lord. By this revealing  statement  which  is  found  in  the
Paingi scripture it is again clarified that the living entities  are  always
distinctly different from the Supreme Lord.
<p>
