<p><div align=justify><p>
Lord  Krishna   speaks  of  directing  one's  consciousness   by   spiritual
intelligence. The merits one  gains in the course of  human  existence  such
as fame, relations, power and wealth though pleasant should  not  be  deemed
important or be attached to. But those superior merits one has  acquired  by
surrender and  meditation  to  the  Supreme  Lord  such  as   righteousness,
compassion for all living entities, devotion and love of God should be  most
attached to.  For one whose consciousness is situated in  the  ignorance  of
nescience, whatever sacrifice, charity, penance or  austerity  one  performs
even for thousands of years are to no avail and bequeath  no  benefit.  This
has been well delineated in many Vedic scriptures. Hence it  is  clearly  to
be understood that the ignorant do not gain  anything  spiritual  by   their
actions.  Vedic  scriptures  reveal  that  both  merits  and  demerits   are
destroyed if actions are performed in unfavourable circumstances.  If  merit
gets  destroyed  as  well  it  is  always  detrimental;  but  there  is   no
possibility for destruction  of  any  merit  for  one  who  is  situated  in
spiritual intelligence even if there is some remnant of desire present.
<p>
If one completely liberated by the wisdom of spiritual intelligence  happens
to desire the realm of the ancestors by his very wish they  will  be  evoked
before him. If this liberated one wishes to enter higher  planetary  systems
or even the heavenly realms by  his  wish  it  is  accomplished.  Objectives
deemed impossible by relative perspectives which the liberated self  desires
manifests on its own accord due to the inherent potency acquired by  uniting
one's individual  consciousness  with  the  ultimate  consciousness  of  the
Supreme Lord and by receiving the power of the Supreme Lords grace.
<p>
It is not that one ever can lose their individual existence by uniting  ones
individual consciousness to the Supreme Lords  ultimate  consciousness.  The
soul is always connected with the Supreme Lord but those  in  the  nescience
of ignorance are unaware of the souls existence. The difference between  the
Supreme Lord and all living entities is  eternal  and  thus  the  individual
existence of all living entities is established as being different from  the
Supreme Lord. The Supreme Lords activities are beyond the parameters of  the
material existence indicating his eternal  transcendental  position  whereas
all living entities in the material existence are subject to  the  cycle  of
birth and death.
<p>
By the dissolution of all illusions the reflection also  ends  and  any  and
all concepts of losing one's individual existence  by  merging,  immediately
is terminated as knowledge of the eternal  difference  between  the  Supreme
Lord and all living entities  is  self-evident  by  self-realisation.   Such
conceptions of merging are contrary to wisdom due to the distinct  spiritual
form of the Supreme Lord.
<p>
Not even with imagination can it be suggested that an  object  reflected  is
at the same time united with its  reflection  although  one  determines  the
other. Nor in the cessation  of  consciousness  is  there  any  evidence  of
merging of reflection and reflected. Otherwise how would it be  possible  to
experience the perception of the duality between the two. The misery of  the
material existence  is  definitely  a  reality.  As  long  as  the  self  is
incarcerated within a physical body this misery continues  to  be.  Thus  it
can be understood that the self is also eternal. So  the  Supreme  Lord  and
the self or soul are eternal and other statement concerning this are  either
temporary or symbolic.
<p>
Narada Muni has  personally  seen  liberated  souls  different  as  separate
individual beings from the Supreme Lord. The statements  found  of  becoming
one with the Lord are indicating that one attains the qualitative  spiritual
existence and association of the Supreme Lord. Different determinations  are
found to be stated due to different angles of  vision.  When  a  man  and  a
woman are married it is often said that they have become one; but does  that
mean they have each lost their separate  individual  existence?  No  not  at
all.  The  proper   rational   and   analysis   must   be   exercised   when
differentiation is seen in the statements of the scriptures and by doing  so
the  basic  principle  is  strengthened.   By   proper   understanding   and
rationalisation alone  can  differentiation  be  harmonised.  Like  a  river
entering the ocean. It  is  all  water  but  the  river  maintains  its  own
characteristics which are simultaneously one and different from the ocean.
<p>
Yet even if in those instances where difference is not  accepted,  it  still
must be admitted that with the entry of the river the volume  of  the  ocean
has definitely increased and cannot be  denied.  The  Supreme  Lord  can  be
likened unto the sea always  open  to  receive;  but  because  of  the  seas
immensity the total perception is restricted.
<p>
Narada Muni has also gone on to declare that  the  Supreme  Lord  cannot  be
attained by even Brahma, Shiva and all the host of demigods. By  such  words
Narada negates equality with the Supreme Lord.
Similarly with the words  yatra  nanyat  pashyati,  where  nothing  else  is
perceived even by such words then deference and subservience to the  Supreme
Lord is always shown or else how is known  to  be  the  Supreme.  All  these
statement have been revealed to dispel  illusion  and  clarify  reality  and
they have been deliberated and determined in various scriptures by  powerful
summations and profound summations.
<p>
These statements should not be  considered  contradictory  as  the  demigods
have temporal physical bodies. Although eternal spiritual beings  also  have
their bodies they are not temporal being spiritually  surcharged  and  being
eternally devoid of limitations by the power of devotion to  and  the  power
of  mercy  from  the  Supreme  Lord  Krishna.  Therefore  in  the   Narayana
Shatakshara Kalpa  the  16  distinctive  signs  on  the  bodies  of  eternal
spiritual beings is given.
<p>
In normal parlance due to their exalted  nature,  eternal  spiritual  beings
are referred to as being beyond duality, beyond the  influence  of  material
nature and transcendental to the material existence.
<p>
Although material bodies are continuously perishing  and  returning  to  the
elements. The bodies of the eternal spiritual beings do not perish for  they
are neither dependent on creation or destruction. But due to the  fact  that
externally they have similar forms that appear to be  the  same,  words  are
used that describe them in terms that are comprehensible according  to  time
and circumstances. When one hears  of  descriptions  like  dwellers  of  the
spiritual worlds possess no bodies and senses sometimes used by Narada  Muni
it should be understood that these  spiritual  beings  possess  no  physical
bodies and senses as we know of but possess  only  spiritual  bodies  filled
with spiritual senses and light and bliss.
<p>
For eternal spiritual beings this very state itself is the verification  for
mukti or liberation. What is the use of speaking more if liberation has  not
been achieved and Swetadwipa has  not  been  attained?  According  to  Vedic
scriptures one is not  a  yogi  until  one  is  liberated.  Other  forms  of
liberation are negated in the Aditya Purana. Even  those  demons  terminated
by Vausdeva Krishna like Sishupal in the end finally get liberation  but  to
attain Swetadwipa special attributes are required.
<p>
King Yudisthira asked about liberation and it was confirmed that  the  other
four forms of liberation based on merging with the Lord have been  rejected.
Only similarity  with  the  form  of  the  Lord  is  the  accepted  form  of
liberation. Achieving liberation and acquiring a spiritual body and  through
that body entering the abode of the Lord and lovingly  interacting  in  ones
eternal position with the Supreme Lord is understood  to  be  liberation  in
similarity to Lord Krishna and not merging into  Him  as  confirmed  in  the
Narayana Shatkakshara Kalpa
<p>
Therefore by achieving liberation all undesirable  qualities  are  destroyed
at the root  and  all  things  antagonistic  to  spiritual  development  are
terminated.  Then  without  misery,  devoid  of  all  pains   and   worries,
deliverance, beyond sorrow, they go to the place where none  returns  beyond
birth and death. These special statements  found  in  the  Vedic  scriptures
prove that those who become self-realised  and  achieve  liberation  do  not
perceive similarity with the Lord but realise an affinity with  the  Supreme
Lord and in the process by the sole dissolution of  their  collective  karma
they enjoy closeness with the Supreme Lord in uninterrupted bliss.
<p>
Therefore  it  is  written  in  Vedic  scriptures  that  after  becoming  so
qualified one enters the eternal  spiritual  worlds  without  fail  of  this
there is no doubt.  Hence  all  impurities  are  completely  readicated  and
seperated from the eternal spirit soul of  the  liberated  spiritual  being.
Even Brahma prays to attain that  pure  spiritual  state  according  to  his
understanding.. "I desire  to  attain  that  supreme  state  of  Brahman.  O
Supreme Brahman, Lord Krishna, Janardana". Thus Brahma and even  Shiva  duly
pray for this Supreme state. Such a state is not only  the  removal  of  all
impurities but also the natural condition of eternal bliss.
<p>
There is nothing comparable to liberation from  the  material  existence  in
the  material  worlds.  Neither  is  there  anything   comparable   to   the
experiences of this superior bliss once one has  achieved  liberation.  This
all encompassing and all pervading bliss transcends speech and is  even  not
found within the mind. Thus it is established that  the  bliss  accompanying
liberation is superior to the bliss of brahman. Thus become  firmly  attuned
to equanimity by yoga and getting wisdom  perform  those  excellent  actions
solely as a matter of duty as offerings to the Supreme Lord Krishna.
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
<p>
Knowledge of the Supreme Lord Krishna and by that knowledge  renouncing  the
fruits of ones actions neutralises the effects of ones actions and is  known
as excellent actions. Knowledge of the Supreme  Lord  Krishna  is  known  as
spiritual intelligence.
<p>
