<p><div align=justify><p>
To answer the query  regarding  what  is  essential  for  one  aspiring  for
liberation the answer is given in this  verse  by  Lord  Krishna.  The  word
nirvedam means indifferent, renunciation is not indicated  here.  Rather  it
is to be understood  that  by  spiritual  intelligence  in  the  process  of
acquiring wisdom one becomes indifferent to  mundane  pursuits.  It  is  not
that one with spiritual intelligence is indifferent  regarding  the  sublime
activities of the Supreme Lord.  Liberated sages immersed in the delight  of
the soul through their highly developed  mental  state  advance  onwards  by
devotion without any desires.  Lord  Krishna  is  very  attracted  to  those
following devotion possessing these attributes. The austerities and  penance
performed by Sukadeva and others give  them  immeasurable  satisfaction  and
great happiness.
<p>
Those who meditate on the lotus feet of Lord Krishna relishing  His  glories
and phenomenal pastimes and that of His  devotees,  they  derive  a  greater
satisfaction that is not even available to one fully realised.  So  needless
to speak about the satisfaction of those in  the  heavenly  realms  who  are
forced to descend down  to  earth  again  once  they  have  exhausted  their
benefits.  For  only  those  situated  with   the    wisdom   of   spiritual
intelligence can understand  Lord  Krishna's  paramount  position  and  thus
perform all actions accordingly.
<p>
Even in liberation there is taratamya gradation. If there were no  gradation
then men of wisdom could not realise the  mercy  of  Lord  Krishna's  divine
grace which is the sole cause of  liberation.   In  this  way  no  one  will
desire similarity with Him. Even if it is offered it will not  be  accepted.
Thus even those not desiring liberation receive it anyway as the  result  of
devotion  and  those  so   desiring   it,   liberation   comes   manifesting
auspiciousness. This auspiciousness manifests even  though  undesired.  Just
as those exalted devotees with special  devotion  to  Lord  Krishna  receive
special mercy at the end of their lives that can be perceived. In  the  same
way dispensation is received by those situated in wisdom at the  termination
of the physical body. Other dispensation is given  for the ascetics  at  the
severance of their mortal coil and still those who experience supreme  bliss
with distinctive character as experienced. In  all  these  different  levels
gradation always exists.
<p>
Liberation by whatever means is deliverance and in this no one  can  surpass
one for one will be fully situated in the ultimate  wisdom  of  devotion  to
Lord Krishna by spiritual intelligence. So in the matter of  equilibrium  it
must be regarded in abundance  as  well  as  in  experiencing  misery.  Even
though abundance and misery must be regarded equally for the  supreme  bliss
it is the realisation in wisdom  by spiritual intelligence that is  the  key
ingredient for liberation from  the  material  existence  as  given  in  the
Narayana Ashtaksha Kalpa. Hence renunciation is not indicated as a means  of
liberation in Vedic scriptures. There also does not exist any  direction  to
other methods regarding liberation. Thus the understanding  for  this  verse
is that by listening to the potent words of great self-realised  beings  the
true purport of the Vedas will be learned.
<p>
