<p><div align=justify><p>
Lord Krishna thus concludes His instructions in this  verse.  The  state  of
brahmi is that which is experienced attaining the ultimate truth.  Achieving
this state one verily is liberated and enters the eternal  spiritual  worlds
otherwise one is compelled to revolve incessantly in the cycle of birth  and
death. This subject is also expounded upon ahead  in  chapter  8,  verse  6.
Even those of spiritual intelligence may be compelled to be reborn if  there
exists an effect from previous actions.  Only  by  undergoing  this  process
explained previously may all residue of effects be totally dissolved. It  is
revealed in the Brahma  Sutras  that  karma  or  effects  from  actions  are
dissolved after countless lifetimes. Even for  the  spiritually  intelligent
it takes seven births to become a brahmin  and  for  a  brahmin  realisation
comes after many lifetimes. Therefore it has been said in the Garuda  Purana
that when one becomes established in elevated awareness similar to Rudra  or
Sesa one becomes delivered  by  the  grace  of  the  Supreme  Lord  Krishna.
Deliverance  from  material  bondage  is  manifest  in  ones  subsequent  by
activities in the  present  life.  In  the  Narada  Purana  it  states  that
spiritual intelligence assures  definite  results.  These  results  are  the
illumination of self-realisation. The  reactions  from  karma  is  the  only
cause of bondage. For one who by spiritual intelligence releases  themselves
from  karma they are verily liberated.
<p>
For  one  of  spiritual  intelligence  there  is  no  expectation  of  being
subjected to birth and death again and again.  The  accumulated  effects  of
all their actions are burned up even as cotton is burned  up  in  fire.  The
actions have no effect as water cannot wet a lotus leaf for  the  wisdom  of
spiritual knowledge evaporates the effect  of  all  actions.   Due  to  such
statements some postulate that those of  spiritual  intelligence  need  many
lifetimes to eradicate all the accumulated effects,  still  this  offers  no
contradiction. However there is no  evidence  for  such  statements  and  no
scriptural authority verifying such.
<p>
Those  who  accept  the  speculative  conjectures   of   Aksapada,   Kanada,
Pashupatas which are opposed to the Vedic scriptures are  those  lacking  in
spiritual  intelligence.  Thus  these  conjectures  are  to  be   completely
rejected. The invocation to Shiva by his devotees should  be  understood  to
be as good as an  invocation to the Supreme Lord. This is not an untruth  as
Shiva is a empowered incarnation as well;  but  only  the  Vedic  scriptures
being authorised may be accepted as evidence. Therefore it is stated in  the
Varaha Purana that Shiva was ordered by Vishnu to  arrange  an  illusion  by
inventing doctrines that would create  delusion  by  propagating  principles
which do not actually exist in fact due to  their  not  being  founded  upon
eternal truth. Shiva was so ordered to execute  this  task  extensively  and
comprehensively with great imagination and to cleverly conceal  the  reality
of Lord Krishna as the supreme, absolute truth.
<p>
Deceptive, confusing  and  delusory  doctrines  were  promulgated  by  Shiva
throughout the material worlds as enjoined by Vishnu.  Influenced  by  these
teachings Dadhici created sciences, Gautama's  nyaya,  Kanada's  vaisesikam,
Kapila Muni's sankhya and  others  such  as  Sankara's  impersonal  mayavadi
hypothisis created  athiestic  philosophies  over  the  course  of  time  to
emulate these  doctrines  and  the  religions  of   Buddhism,  Christianity,
Islam, and the Jews all being impersonal without  a  form  or  qualities  or
even a conception of what God they are actually  worshipping  more  or  less
stem from Sankara. But the following doctrines should be understood  not  to
under Shivas influence. The Rig Veda, Sama Veda, Yajur Veda,  Atharva  Veda,
Brahma Sutra, Pancharatra,  Srimad  Bhagavatam,   Ramayana  and  Mahabharata
which includes the illustrious Bhagavad-Gita are all  known to  be  Vaisnava
scriptures and they eulogise the  Supreme  Lord.  Therefore  all  the  Shiva
Puranas should be interpreted and verified according  to  the  understanding
of the Vaisnava scriptures without the slightest contradiction and  this  is
confirmed in the Narada Purana.
<p>
Thus for  one  situated  in  spiritual  intelligence  liberation  is  surely
forthcoming without fail.  For  those  of  spiritual  intelligence  such  as
Bhishma and Drona  at the time of death they were appropriately in  a  state
of complete equipoise. One should at the moment  of  death  in  a  state  of
equanimity depart from the body  focused  in  meditation  on  the  exquisite
form,  sublime  qualities  and  phenomenal  pastimes  of  the  Supreme  Lord
Krishna. Thus it has been revealed in the Garuda Purana that at the time  of
death  those of spiritual intelligence showing  equanimity  in  all  actions
meditate on Lord Krishna and  being  under  His  protection  are  guided  to
salvation. But for those bereft of spiritual  intelligence  the  remembrance
of the Supreme Lord at the moment of death never manifests.  In  the  Brahma
Vaivarta Purana it is stated that after innumerable  lifetimes  when  wisdom
regarding Lord Krishna has  matured  and  devotion  has  been  attained  one
naturally meditates exclusively on Him at the termination of  ones  physical
existence.
<p>
Nirvana denotes existence beyond the purview of the physical  body.  Nirvana
is also  used  to  indicate  not  possessing  any  material  senses  organs.
Otherwise how could the Puranas possibly describe  the  transcendental  form
of the resplendent  Supreme  Lord  Krishna.  The  resplendent  Supreme  Lord
Krishna is known as the effulgent Brahman, as  Paramatma  the  supersoul  in
all living entities and as Bhagavan  the  Supreme  Personality  of  Godhead.
This is well confirmed in the Bhagavat Purana.
<p>
The effulgent Brahman is the reflection of the Supreme Lord Krishna  who  is
also the source of  Paramatma the supersoul. Isvara the  supreme  controller
is the supreme Lord transcendent to all that is mutable and supreme to  even
that which is immutable. Far, far beyond anything that is accessible by  any
of the senses. There is nothing comparable to Lord Krishna  neither  in  the
past nor in the future. Thus there being nothing comparable to Lord  Krishna
it is not possible for anything to be superior to Lord Krishna.
<p>
The effulgent Brahman should  not  be  conceived  as  one  without  a  form.
Although not possessing a physical form He does possess  a  spiritual  form.
It is clearly described in Vedic scriptures that  He  possesses  a  blissful
form surrounded by a golden glow and that He should  be  meditated  upon  in
this form internally within the heart. If He  did  not  possess  a  form  He
would have been simply described as Bliss and how  can  there  be  a  golden
glow surrounding His body if it  was  formless?  How  can  Lord  Krishna  be
meditated on within the heart  if  He  has  no  form?  Possessing  a  purely
spiritual form He is known and referred to as  having  a  form.  The  Purusa
having thousands  of  heads,  having  hands  and  feet  in  all  directions,
omnipotent, omnipresent and omniscient. Due  to  such  statements  from  the
Vedic scriptures and due to descriptions of  the  universal  form  later  in
chapter 11 he is known to have form.
<p>
The Supreme Lord Krishna the resplendent maintainer of all is 100%  complete
within Himself in all respects and thus is known as Bhagavan  the  possessor
of the six opulences being full  in  100%  knowledge,  100%  strength,  100%
beauty, 100% wealth, 100% fame and 100% renunciation.  In the  Supreme  Lord
Krishna reside all the various and diverse energies.  This  is  natural  and
totally in accordance with reality  as  He  is  the  source  of  all  theses
energies. He is the also the source of the ever blissful Brahman. By only  a
minute fragment of  His  potency  all  creation  exists  and  is  sustained.
Eternal,  immortal,  without  beginning  and  without  end,  of  everlasting
energy, transcending the brilliance of thousands  of  suns,  more  effulgent
then thousands of moons, having unlimited attributes  and  unlimited  facets
in each one of  those  unlimited  attributes,  possessing  unlimited  forms,
unlimited knowledge  of  immeasurable  energy,  omnipotent  omnipresent  and
omniscient. Those situated in spiritual  knowledge  know  the  Supreme  Lord
Krishna as Brahman, Paramatma and Bhagavan. Who else but  the  Supreme  Lord
Krishna and His incarnations and expansions may ever be known  as  Bhagavan.
He is glorious and eternally worshipable  by  all  living  entities  in  all
situations for all times.
<p>
Yet all these attributes are not exclusively independent from each  another.
Brahman is wisdom and bliss for indeed bliss is and  attribute  of  brahman.
Truth, wisdom and eternality are also  brahman.  Without  a  gross  material
body of flesh and blood  and  corpulence  and  bones  subject  to  old  age,
disease and death.  Possessing  an  immortal  spiritual  body  of  eternity,
knowledge and bliss. These  qualities  are  immutable  all  their  pervading
nature are not derived due to yoga or but rather due to Lord  Krishna  being
the Supreme ultimate truth. His  spiritual  body  is  fragrant  due  to  the
illuminating purity of His wisdom and bliss. Thus  it  is  revealed  in  the
appendix of the Paingi Sutra.
<p>
The spiritual body of the Supreme Lord Krishna is  not  of  material  nature
and is ever  blissful  being  complete  in  all  respects  as  well  as  all
pervading. This is confirmed in the Brahma  Vaivarta  Purana.  Therefore  by
impulse or projection all these inherent forms are  self-manifested  by  the
Supreme Lord Krishnas internal potency. Lord Krishna was neither  born  from
the womb of Devaki nor was He the son  of  Vasudeva.  Similarly  avatars  of
Lord Krishna such as Rama was not the son of  Dasaratha  and  Lord  Krishnas
satyavesha avatar Parasurama was not the son of Jamadagni. Even though  Lord
Krishna is  the  supreme  ultimate  non-dual  absolute,  ever  blissful  and
immutable, He revels in this manner by  His  own  sweet  will.  Thus  is  it
stated in the Padma Purana. The Supreme Lord, who is the  supreme  being  of
all beings never is subject to misery.
<p>
The  creator  of  all  creation,  indestructible,   the   omnipotent   Rama,
omnipresent and the embodiment of complete omniscience  displayed  ignorance
for the sake of humanity and  the  world  and  wandered  about  in  apparent
lamentation searching for his beloved wife Sita. This Sri  Rama  whose  feet
are adored by Brahma, mourns in  lamentation  for  his  wife  just  like  an
ordinary mortal exhibiting extreme attachment. Even though Rama was  perfect
and complete in all respects being an avatar, in order to not  minimise  the
words of Shiva he behaved as though he was distraught even though  Rama  was
not actually distraught. Ever victorious Parasurama aware of  Lord  Krishnas
devotee Bhishma did not slay him even when they  engaged  in  mortal  combat
because he refused to marry Amba.   What  can  be  more  compassionate  than
this? This is stated in the Skanda Purana.
<p>
Therefore it should be understood that miseries of  material  existence  are
not applicable in regard to the Supreme Lord and should  not  be  designated
as such as this conception is illusory. Some texts mention  superiority  and
inferiority in regard to the Supreme  Lord  Krishna's  avatar  descents  not
understanding the fact that they are different manifestations  of  the  same
supreme non-dual absolute. Therefore it is spoken thus in the Garuda  Purana
that the Supreme Lord Krishna is complete with all attributes, in all  forms
and similar in all manifestations being transcendental to  material  nature.
This applies even though according to the  perceptions  of  the  spiritually
intelligent as well as the perceptions of the ignorant Supreme  and  mundane
qualities are attributed respectively to  these  manifestations.  This  even
though is not a contradiction or incongruity due to His inconceivable  power
and and the phenomenal varieagatedness of His appearances.
<p>
The form of the Supreme Lord Krishna is always complete as  well  as  Ramas.
There is  not  even  the  slightest  variation  in  their  supreme  non-dual
position. We are still being continuously deluded by all of them. As  it  is
stated in the Narada Purana. Therefore  it  is  established  that  only  the
spiritually intelligent who by the mercy of Sri Guru has  attained  devotion
has  the  possibility  to  experience  the  Supreme  Lord  Krishna  and  His
incarnations  being  ever  immeasurable  in  all  their   forms   with   all
comprehensive attributes, eternal and transcendental beyond all defects.
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
The  word  brahmi  means  related  to  Brahma.  Even   the  intelligent  who
experience diversity of thought  at  the  moment  of  death  there  will  be
rebirth in the material existence due to the accumulated  effects  of  their
karma having not been dissolved.  But for  those  of  one-pointed  spiritual
intelligence who have dissolved the accumulated effects of all their  karma,
at the moment of death there arises the vision of the Supreme  Lord  without
fail. Then immediately one achieves liberation and  is  delivered  from  the
cycle of birth and death in the  material  existence  specifically  entering
into the exact liberated sphere that one  had  knowledge  of  and  perceived
during ones span of life.
<p>
At the end of this verse the word vana  within  the  compound  word  brahma-
nirvana refers to the body. Brahman is  referring  to  the  potency  of  the
supreme. As Lord Krishna body is completely spiritual the  word  nirvana  is
revealing that it is by our  spiritual  body  which  is  designated  as  the
immortal soul is how we enter into eternal communion with the  Supreme  Lord
and attain the kingdom of God.
<p>
