<p><div align=justify><p>
<p>
<p>
<p>
From the previous verse the word yogi means one perfecting the science of
the individual consciousness attaining communion with the ultimate
consciousness. The word jnanibhyo means the worshipers of the Brahman or
the spiritual substratum pervading all existence. The word tapasvibhyo
means the performers of rituals and austerities. Superior even to these
different types of yogis is one who has achieved atma tattva or realisation
of the soul. The Garuda Purans states that: In comparison to  all yogis and
aspirants, meditation on Lord Krishna or His Vedically authorised
incarnations is 100,000 times superior to  meditation on others. In the
Narada Purana it states: Meditation with knowledge of the Supreme Lord
Krishna is infinitely superior to meditation without knowledge of the
Supreme Lord Krishna. Better than even meditation with knowledge of the
Supreme Lord Krishna is direct perception of the Supreme Lord Krishna.
Better than even direct perception of the Supreme Lord Krishna is communion
with devotion to the Supreme Lord Krishna.
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
Superior to austerities and penance is meditation. Better than meditation
without realisation is meditation with realisation. For those who meditate
with realisation that are not devotees of Lord Krishna or His Vedically
authorised incarnations, whatever they meditate on has no efficacy. The
persons who see similarity between other gods and the Supreme Lord Krishna,
the persons who do not see Lord Krishna as superior to all other gods, the
persons who believe other gods to be more elevated than the Supreme Lord
Krishna, those person who are indifferent to the Supreme Lord Krishna and
those persons who are irreverent and spiteful to the Supreme Lord Krishna
are all classified as non-devotees.  Among the devotees who do not possess
the offensive mentality previously elucidated. Those special devotees who
worship the Supreme Lord Krishna exclusively with love and devotion are the
most elevated of all.  Sri Dattatreya a lila avatar or incarnation of the
Supreme Lord Krishna states: The Supreme Lord is installed directly in the
center of a Vaisnava or Brahmana family as the leading member and is thus
lovingly and devotedly worshipped as such.
<p>
<p>
