<p><div align=justify><p>
For the deliverance of old age and death this verse is being spoken and not
for other desires. This is the purport. Attachment to moksa or the
achieving liberation from the cycle of birth and death is commendable; but
surely in no way is it prescribed or should it ever be construed that one
should worship the Supreme Lord Krishna merely for the sake of moksa. This
would be folly and erroneous as moksa is an insignificant aspiration
compared to the aspiration for bhakti which is one pointed loving devotion
to the Supreme Lord Krishna. The Narada Purana has elucidated on this point
and confer that this verse does not apply to those who seek moksa only.
This may be explained in a contrary way as follows: The knowledge of all
the Vedas for the sake of the demigods, the knowledge of all the 330
million demigods for the sake of Lord Krishna and the knowledge of Lord
Krishna for the sake of moksa, then moksa has no purpose at all. Such
misconceptions belong to the fledgling intermediates who are just beginning
their first lifetime as an aspirants. But for the mature devotees of many
lifetimes there is nothing in all existence superior or more glorious then
the Supreme Lord Krishna.
<p>
Sublime devotion to the Supreme Lord Krishna without distraction and
cessation, without desires and expectations, seeking nothing in return,
when performed with concentrated meditation with awareness of the inherent
eternal nature of the atma or soul within all sentient beings as being part
of Him has been established down through the millenniums as the single most
superior endeavour in a being's life. Thus is how the essence of communion
with the Supreme Lord in bhakti has been eruditely explained in the
Bhagavat Purana.
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
The words te vidur mean those who know. This refers to the ekantins or
those who by dint of their spiritual wisdom are singularly devoted to the
Supreme Lord Krishna. He is the ultimate one to be aware of, the one
without a second and the one who beyond a doubt is the Supreme and Ultimate
Personality of all creation and created beings. In the Katha Upanisad
I.II.XXIII it states: Only to that being who is singularly and exclusively
devoted to the Supreme Lord does He reveal Himself to.
<p>
The elevated and enlightened living entities who are singularly and
exclusively devoted to the Supreme Lord Krishna are not in the least
concerned about the old age and death of the physical body. But what they
are very concerned about is the destination of the soul at the time of
departure from the physical body which is known as death. Old age and death
have reference only to the physical body and can never be applied to the
atma or the immortal soul. The eternal atma being purely spiritual is what
departs the physical body and has the inherent ability to transcend
mortality.
<p>
