<p><div align=justify><p>
<p>
<p>
<p>
In this verse Lord Krishna speaks of the presiding demigods who when the
atma or soul departs the body at the moment of death assists one in
achieving moksa or liberation from material existence or conducts one back
into samsara the perpetual cycle of birth and death. The term yatra kale
meaning according to the dictates of the presiding demigod, is only a
qualifying statement. Since through the demigods like Agni in charge of
fire are also avenues, Lord Krishna discourses on them.
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
The demigods presiding over time are those who assist one after they depart
their physical body at the time of death. Even though demigods such as Agni
are not in charge of actual time as thought of in general usage. Those who
depart their bodies in death during daksinayana or when the sun is in its
waning southern course receive the respects of their departed ancestors and
acquiring the beautiful, youthful forms of the demigods attain the
corresponding world they have qualified for by their karma or reactions to
previous life activities. But for one who has realised the brahman or
spiritual substratum pervading all existence, it is they who travel along
the rays of the sun and reach the highest material planet of Brahmaloka
where they complete their perfection. Others go to the heavenly planets to
enjoy the rewards of their pious activities from the previous life and when
they are finished they are reborn again in the worlds of mortals. Thus for
one who has realised the brahman there is no return for them either if
death comes during uttarayan when the sun is in its waxing northern course
or if death comes during daksinayana. So the wise have confirmed that those
who have realised the brahman do not return to the world of mortals
regardless of when they depart their physical bodies at the time of death.
The Padma Purana states: One who has realised the brahman attains the
Supreme destination regardless of when they deaprt their body at the time
of death.
<p>
