<p><div align=justify><p>
How it is possible for the righteous to directly worship the Supreme Lord
Krishna is given here. But this applies only to those who are imbued with
the divine presence of the atma or eternal soul. It has been said in the
Sandilya text that: One who does not abandon evil ways, one who has no
devotion to the Supreme Lord and one who has not equipoise cannot become a
devotee of Lord Krishna. But the demigods and sages although sometimes
overpowered by their own intentions become in due course of time the pure
devotees never forgetting Him and always remembering Him because they are
aware of His all encompassing supremacy. Therefore others unaware of this
who fraudulently strive to prove their devotion should be known as
charlatans. Those with slight demerits may attain devotion due to
association with those devoted to Lord Krishna. Still others may offer
simple devotion increasing gradually. But those addicted to sense
gratification who pretend to be great devotees externally but internally
are always thinking of pleasure and recognition are truly the worst
deceivers. The Vishnu Purana has mentioned that for those  engaged in
abominable behaviour and act contrary to the ordinances and injunctions of
the Vedic scriptures, bhakti or loving devotion will never manifest within
their hearts. Those who are receptive to bhakti have great faith in the
Vedic scriptures and there devotion to Lord Krishna keeps on increasing and
their desires for other things keeps on decreasing.
<p>
The Moksa Dharma states: O Lord! Having studied the Vedas I am always
engaged in austerities. I have dedicatedly served my spiritual master and
have never spoken an untruth in the past and I chant my sacred mantras
secretly. The four truths revealed in the Vedic scriptures are enshrined
within my heart. I am always equal to both friend and enemy alike. Fully
surrendering to the Supreme Lord I have been propitiating Him with unabated
and unadulterated devotion. How is it that I am unable to perceive His
eternal form which is pure and blissful within my heart?
<p>
Thus righteous behaviour is considered as one of the means of acquiring
spiritual intelligence. Without spiritual wisdom true devotion is not
possible to understand. The Gautama text states that: Without spiritual
wisdom how can there ever be devotion and without devotion how can there
ever be atma tattva or realisation of the soul. The Bhagavat Purana has
declared: That devotion to the Supreme Lord, spiritual wisdom and aversion
to all other things, all these three go together.
<p>
Now begins the summation.
<p>
The Padma Purana states: Who is devoted to the Supreme Lord can never by
inimical to the Supreme Lord and who is inimical to the Supreme Lord can
never be a devotee of the Supreme Lord. Yet the Supreme Lord is always
equitable in bestowing the rewards according to one's devotion.
<p>
The devotees are dear to the Supreme Lord. The karma or reactions to
actions leading to merits and demerits are according to each one's
attributes. The stage of Brahmin and others are also normal for them
according to their attributes and so is their moksa or liberation. A male
human being is next born as a female because of desires or some demerit. A
female human being is never born as a male because of attributes but they
reside within the male body alongside the male form in a spiritual female
form. These spiritual female forms are unlimitedly superior to those who
have taken female forms due to the demerit of desires.
<p>
All jivas or embodied beings accept the body of skin, flesh and species
according to their attributes. Even after dissolving the residue of prior
karmas and attaining moksa each jiva experiences even their spiritual
existence according to their inherent attributes that manifested in their
atma or eternal soul when they first entered material existence from the
spiritual worlds. So from this declaration revealed in the Bhavishya Purana
the concept of merits and demerits for even those born under evil
circumstances can be accepted.
<p>
